https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJn9rUUT99g
4:43
```
irritate  
tempt           v. 引诱，诱惑；怂恿，利诱；冒……的风险  
delicate        adj. 柔和的，清淡的；虚弱的，纤弱的；脆弱的，易碎的；小巧玲珑的，纤细的；微妙的，棘手的；精致的，精巧的；灵巧的，熟练的；（仪器）灵敏的
distress        n. 忧虑，悲伤；贫困；危难，险情；（肉体的）剧痛
nasty           adj. 恶毒的，凶相的；令人不快的，令人厌恶的；（伤口、疾病等）严重的，恶性的；污秽的，下流的；（外表）丑陋的，（气味等）难闻的；造成很大伤害的；令人担忧的，难对付的；有威胁性的，吓人的
```

Sarah Says: What causes an Ear Infection?

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

every parent in the country knows `misery` of ear infections, even if they don't remember them themselves from their own childhood believe me it's highly likely their children will go through them at some point. Ear infections are really really common and the most common kind, certainly in children, is a middle ear infection, otherwise known as `otitismedia`, you know we love long medical terms basically right behind the eardrum, that you could get if you went in far enough, we see a clear drum, and behind that a space. Tat combination of space and eardrum is called the middle ear, and `inflammation` of the ear, which is called otitis, in the middle ear, now the most common symptoms in kids are pain and fever, perhaps not surprisingly these symptoms tend to happen in winter because of course, most cases of ear infection are caused by infection, particularly viruses which are similar to the common cold viruses and they, as we all know happen during the winter months. 

your child may be really quite `grotty`, quite unwell, a little bit `lethargic`. If they're over about two they should be able to tell you where the pain is, if they're under two they may just be very very distressed and in a lot of pain and have a fever. The good news is, that the vast majority of middle ear infections settle on their own within a few days. In fact lots of studies have been done looking at whether giving `antibiotics` speeds up your recovery from a middle ear infection. Almost always it makes no difference at all and that's why these days GPs very rarely give antibiotics for middle ear infections. They may make an exception for under two-year-olds because they're more likely have a bacterial infection, and of course bacterial infections do respond to antibiotics where `viral` infections absolutely won't. They may well give antibiotics if you've got an infection in both ears and we do very much need you to be aware really rare and very dangerous complication called `mastoiditis` if your child has mastoiditis, and again, I stress it is really rare, then they will be extremely unwell and often be `delirious` and they will be incredibly `tender` right behind the ear. But that doesn't apply to the vast majority of kids, so if you think your child's got an ear infection what do you do? Well if they're under two, if their temperature is really high, if they're extremely unwell, yes see your GP. However if it's just one side then the likelihood is that it will settle within a few days. some GPs will give what's called the "delayed prescription" for antibiotics they give you the prescription when you go in and say don't give it unless the symptoms are still there a few days later. `Paracetamol`, ibuprofen which works even faster than Paracetamol, are both really really good they will help with the symptoms and they're not gonna mask anything that's going on, so you won't miss anything because they're taking the symptoms. 

Sometimes the ear drum can burst and lots of horrid yucky yellow pus will come out which can smell quite `nasty`. don't worry about that because actually most of the pain your child feels is because the build up of `puss` behind the eardrum, once that's come out, the pressure will be relieved, and they may feel much better. Whatever you do, do not be tempted to put a cotton bud inside their ear to clean it. I always tell my patients, never put anything in your year that is smaller than your elbow in other words, nothing at all. At worst, you can perforate the ear drum yourself, at best you can `irritate` the `delicate lining` of the ear drum, so, cotton buds are for tummy buttons and makeup only. 

How can you stop your child getting ear infections? You cat. But there is lots that you can do to reduce their risk. Firstly we know that children who are `breastfed` are less likely to get ear infections, secondly smoking. Even if you don't smoke in the house, if there's a smoker living in the house, that hugely increases the child's risk of getting an ear infection. It's just another reason to stop Thirdly there's some evidence that having `dummies` may increase the risk of an ear infection, having said that there's also now some evidence that it may cut your risk of cot death, so it's a balance. Certainly never put sugar on dummies, don't force a dummy on a baby, but other than that, it's up to you.