https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K5tdhilRoW0

```
irritate    
pending   adj. 未决定的；行将发生的  v. 待定；悬而不决（pend 的现在分词）    
confine
compose   v. 组成，构成；作曲；撰写（信、诗或演讲稿）；使镇静，使平静；为（照片、图像）构图；排版，排稿
decompose  vt. 分解；使腐烂
scrub      n. 矮树；洗擦；擦洗者；矮小的人（或物）          
```

What are the risks of microbeads and microplastics?

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Should you be worried about `microbeads`? Pick up a bottle of facial `scrub` and there's a chance it'll contain these really small beads of plastic. They're designed to gently strip away the outer dead layers of your skin, and leave you feeling `tingly` fresh. Since the nineteen nineties, these beads have been used in thousands of products: foundations, facial scrubs, shampoos, `exfoliants`, face polish ... (whatever that is), and even toothpaste. They're typically around a millimeter or less `in diameter`, so similar in size of a grain of sugar. Unfortunately, while they seem to be effective, they may be creating problems. In 2013, researchers discovered that these microbeads were appearing in the environment, and they raised the alarm over possible `adverse` impacts. Since then, ten states in the US have restricted sales of microbead-containing products, and and similar legislation is pending in six more. There are also proposals on the table for a federal ban on the use of microbeads in the US. But how concerned should you really be? `Polyethylene` - the plastic most microbeads are made of - is pretty non-toxic. It doesn't cause cancer, it doesn't seem to be a problem if you eat it, and it doesn't `irritate` your skin. In fact it doesn't do much of anything, including `dissolve`, or `decompose`. And this is where things get tricky. Microbeads in personal care products eventually end up being washed down the drain. And because they're so small, they escape `capture` in wastewater treatment plants, eventually ending up in rivers, lakes, and oceans. Once there, because they don't degrade or sink, they stick around. For a long, long time. This is an environmental red flag in itself. But there is another problem. Microbeads suck up toxic chemicals, and then potentially release them elsewhere, including into `mussels`, `crabs`, fish, and other organisms, that may ultimately end up on your dinner `plate`. Of course, how dangerous this is depends on how large the resulting exposures are. Professor Sherri Mason at the State University of New York at Fredonia is one scientist working on the problem. Sherri and her colleagues have measured up to a million microbeads per square kilometre at the surface of Lake Ontario. This is `roughly` equivalent to a polyethylene `concentration` of six parts per billion. This may not sound a lot. And it wouldn't be if the plastic was the only problem. But even at this low concentration, toxins absorbed to the microbeads could be an issue. To make matters worse, organisms that do take up beads, concentrate them into a smaller volume, potentially leading to higher exposures. And this isn't an issue `confined` to microbeads. Micro plastics, millimeter-sized fragments of the plastic rubbish we're continually `dumping` into the environment, also suck up toxins, and pass them up the food chain. But microbeads certainly add to the problem. At this point we don't know how big of a challenge we're facing, but without a doubt, microbead raise some serious red flags. On top of this though there is another issue with microbeads, even before they disappear down the `drain`. And that's their use in `toothpaste`. Some toothpastes include microbeads to, you guessed it, leave you with that `tingly` fresh feeling after brushing. The trouble is, some of those beads can end up `lodged` between your `gums` and your teeth. No one's sure yet whether this is a problem. The American Dental Association for instance doesn't think that microbeads are unsafe. But they are monitoring the situation. That said, some dental professionals are worried that, because microbeads stick around for so long, getting them lodged in your guns could potentially increase the chances of developing diseases like `gingivitis`. In the meantime some companies are `phasing out` the use of microbeads in toothpaste, though mainly because they'd prefer to play it safe with their customers. `The bottom line` is there's a lot we still don't know about the potential risks of microbeads. But given their size, persistence, and `propensity` to `soak up` toxic chemicals, there's a pretty good chance that they'll end up causing harm somewhere. So next time you reach for the facial scrub, or the microbeads soap, you might just spare a thought to future generations, who are going to have to clean up the mess, that you may just be contributing to. For more information on microbeads, do check out the links in the blurb below. And as always, stay safe. 