https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IcMOz7doXXk
5:30

```
precede             v. 处在……之前，先于；在……之前做（或说）；比……更重要，比……（级别）更高
encompass           v. 包含，包括；包围，环绕；<古>促成，实现
ensue               v. 继而发生，因而发生；追求
integrate           v. （使）合并，成为一体；（使）加入，融入群体；（使）取消种族隔离；求……的积分；表示（面积、温度等）的总和，表示……的平均值
interdisciplinary   adj. 跨学科的
compelling          adj. 令人信服的，有说服力的；引人入胜的，扣人心弦的；非常强烈的，不可抗拒的
heuristic           adj. 启发式的；探索的  n. 启发式教育法；探索性步骤
align               v. 公开支持，与……结盟；（使）排成一条直线，使平行；调整，使一致；（使）参加，加入 vi. 排列；排成一行
span                n. 时间跨度，一段时间；（桥或拱的）墩距，跨距；宽度，翼展；范围，包括的种类；（航海）跨绳；一队人（或动物）；数值范围；一掌的长度
cognition           n. 认识，认知；认识（或认知）的结果
entitle             v. 给予（某人）权利，给（某人）资格；给......命名，给......题名
```

Center On The Developing Adolescent: An Introduction

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

(gentle music) - Welcome, it's exciting to share the launch of our Center on the Developing Adolescent. This Center is the `outgrowth` of years of effort and intellectual contributions from many people coming together into a shared vision. This vision focuses on achieving a deeper understanding of adolescence as a developmental period of vulnerabilities and opportunities and using this knowledge to improve the lives of youth. The mission of our Center is to advance understanding of adolescence through innovative `transdisciplinary` developmental science. To advance this mission, we believe that integrative team science approaches are needed. Exciting advances in neuroscience must be integrated with the expertise and developmental science, psychological science, affective science, as well as clinical, social, educational, public health policy, and cultural perspectives on adolescence. 

This requires a team of teams, innovative partnerships, networks, and collaborations. Our aims are to promote and support transdisciplinary research networks, research partnerships, and research activities that integrate multiple levels of understanding of adolescent development. Our Center emphasizes a team science approach. We incorporate expertise spanning basic areas of developmental science, social, affective, and cognitive neuroscience as well as clinical, educational, public health, cultural, social, and global perspectives on adolescence. We have a strong interest in understanding how social and emotional experiences shape key developing biological systems during adolescence. We also promote and support training activities aligned with this mission. Our Center aims to serve as a hub of integration of cutting edge developmental science from leading researchers and collaborators who are advancing understanding of adolescence. Some of the early roots of these ideas go back to a scientific conference in 2003 hosted by The New York Academy of Sciences entitled Adolescent Brain Development, a Period of Vulnerabilities and Opportunities. This meeting brought together an impressively diverse group of scientists, young scholars, clinicians, policy makers, and stakeholders interested in adolescence into an integrative interdisciplinary discussion stretching from basic neuroscience to policy level questions. It was inspiring. It generated a great deal of excitement. Over the `ensuing` 12 years, the field has grown at an explosive rate. Scores of conferences, thousands of scientific papers ranging from basic research, developmental, cognitive, affective, and social neuroscience, psychology, issues of sociology, legal justice, and policy level issues of adolescence. Now, there's broad recognition across scientific disciplines as well as public understanding of the importance of adolescence as a high-impact maturational period. A complex time of dramatic changes, learning, development, and plasticity in ways that create risks and opportunities. And with lifelong impact on health, education, well-being, and social as well as economic success. There's also growing recognition of the importance of adolescence from a global perspective. 

The rapid gains over the past decade from global efforts to improve the lives of women, infants, and children are now being extended to include adolescents for compelling reasons. Unprecedented changes in human demography, population, mobility, global communications, economic development, and the digital revolution are creating unique vulnerabilities and opportunities for the largest generation of adolescents in human history. Developmental science has important contributions to make relevant to these high-stake issues. We are at an early point of understanding this exciting scientific frontier. There is enormous complexity and great challenges. This developmental bridge between childhood and adulthood `encompasses` a dramatic set of physical, emotional, cognitive, and social changes and interactions across these levels, many of which are only beginning to be understood scientifically. To help address these challenges and complexities, we have organized the Center on the Developing Adolescent. We seek opportunities to promote intellectual exchanges that help to integrate understanding across levels in disciplines, contribute to advancing and refining `transdisciplinary` `heuristic` models, and contribute to designing and carrying out studies to test key features of these models. We support collaborative networking to promote the sharing of methods, measures, tasks, and findings. We promote innovation and translational activities and interdisciplinary exchanges relevant to providers in clinical, educational, and public health settings. We place a high priority on contributing to the training of students and young scholars who want to become part of transdisciplinary team research focusing on adolescence. 

We partner with other teams, teams working at different levels. Our Center includes a number of overlapping and interrelated research teams, partnerships, and research networks, each with their own leadership structure that extend across the University of California system as well as several other universities in the U.S. and internationally. Our long term goals through partnering are to identify policy-relevant opportunities for improving the developmental trajectories of health, education, and well-being among youth. We believe a deeper understanding of the developmental science of adolescence will provide new leverage points for early intervention and prevention efforts and innovative approaches to education and positive youth development. Thank you. (gentle music) 