https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MunClh2OuHY

```  
viable      可行的; 能活的; 可实施的; 可实行的;
pragmatic  
holistic    adj. 整体的；全盘的        
implication    n. 含义；暗示；牵连，卷入；可能的结果，影响  
effluent  
blessed    
facility      
profession    
barrel    
entail      v. 使必要，需要； n. 限定继承，限嗣继承的财产
```

Hydraulic Fracturing - 7.3 - Nathan Kuhnert, Water Management Specialist, Devon Energy

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Dr. Puls: In our recent discussions we have been focusing on issues of environmental sustainability with oil and gas production, particularly in the context of drought. Today we have with us Nathan Kuhnert. Nathan is an Environmental Health and Safety Professional with Devon Energy, a leading oil and gas producing independent. Nathan specializes in policy and management for Devon and is committed to building sustainable and economical water management practices across his company. Welcome Nathan. 

Mr. Kuhnert: Thank you Dr. Puls. 

Dr. Puls: So I have some questions for you today. I know Devon has experienced some challenges in the sourcing and management of water resources for their oil and gas operations, especially during the recent drought. Can you discuss how Devon has met the challenge in the context of sustainable water management? Mr. Kuhnert: I, I appreciate that question and please let me start with the clarifying sustainable water management. For, for this situation, I'm going to refer to those practices that are practical. They're economical and ultimately they reduce freshwater consumption in the basin that we operate in and oftentimes our overall water use is still pretty far down in relation to the other users in that basin. We're very proud that we have found some solutions that have been both sustainable as well as economically viable. And for instance, I'd like to share with you our Cana reuse `facility`. Cana is is a major project of Devon's, which is approximately starting about 30 miles west of the greater Oklahoma City area. And this is in the middle of the Woodford Shale play and we realize that the relatively low total dissolved solids that was coming back during the flow back process was relatively low and we realized that this water was really good water and if we could get the regulatory structure situated with the state that we could take advantage of this tremendous resource to help augment our, our overall water supply. So Oklahoma Corporation Commission passed a a revised pit rule and now as a result we have a 500,000 barrel pit out in the Cana play and that pit is designed with multiple layers of environmental protection. It has a very strong liner, has a leak detection system and the end result is that we'll be able to complete approximately 270 hydrocarbon wells with just the water that has been sent to that pit from our producing wells. So that's definitely a win-win situation for us. Further to the east in Oklahoma, which is which is the Mississippi line play, we're not `blessed` with as good of water quality in our flow back process but we've learned and we've continued to get better frack designs, fluid designs from our service providers. So now we're able to use some of our produce water directly for our fracks as well. So those are two examples that we're able to really promote sustainability as well as actually improve our, our overall business process. 

Dr. Puls: That's very, that's very interesting. So two things I'm hearing: one is you are able to make this work not only from an environmental sustainability standpoint but also from an economical standpoint, and two this issue of the difference between the two formations in terms of water quality and the challenges that presents in terms of then reusing that water. So how do you see those lessons and those two plays going forward with other locations? 

Mr. Kuhnert: No I appreciate that, because it seems that it's just been a `progression`. You know about eight years ago we started with the Barnett Shale water recycling facility. We had lessons learned and it's just continued. We just continue to build upon that. We've learned of course that not one size fits all. The water quality not only can vary from one play to another but often it varies inter play, as well as the volumes of water that will be coming back during the flow back process. So we have to design a system that can account for that type of variability. In another large variable that we have to plan for is that depending on what phase of your exploration process that you're in or in your actual infield drilling program, it has a huge implication of what type of infrastructure and resources you can design, you know, for more alternative solutions that are more sustainable-based. So often we want to start off with a more flexible type of design and then later if the play is proven to be economically viable, that's when we can really begin to develop more larger scale infrastructure to do these types of projects. 

Dr. Puls: So what this means then is that you really had to take an adaptive management approach in terms of these things since they oftentimes are unknown in terms of what you're going to encounter, how things are going to work in a particular location and so forth? Mr. Kuhnert: Absolutely. And and so we're still learning, I mean we're still optimizing the process, but we definitely have made great strides in adaptive management approach of the last couple of years. Dr. Puls: Besides recycling of flow back produced waters, are you looking at recycling of other kinds of waters or other types of water sourcing besides just reuse and recycling? 

Mr. Kuhnert: That's a good question. A really hot topic over the last year or two has been `brackish` water. You know, brackish water is...it could be defined differently as far as what is the total dissolved solids concentration and so brackish water `from our standpoint` is water that's beyond fresh, but ultimately the higher the total dissolved solids content is then it does create some more management hurdles to have to go through to, to be able to come up with the optimal process. In the state of Texas for instance, the Texas Water Development Board is putting together proposal to study brackish water resources in in the Permian Basin. Devon currently is involved with a consortium down loosely associated with Rice University, where they're looking to be able to optimize brackish water as well. So brackish water is definitely an alternative source solution but we just have to continue to further understand the, the processes and make sure it's not going to have adverse impact to our, not only our frack design but the actual formation itself that we would be injecting, you know, that solution down into. One other alternative source of water that we're looking into as well is just wastewater `effluent`. That hasn't been tried on a large-scale practice because there's still a lot more unknowns with that as well as logistical considerations and stakeholder concerns. 

Dr. Puls: In in all of this it seems like there's like an increased emphasis on working with multiple stakeholders, particularly state agencies. Agencies that are involved with water quality, agencies involved with `permitting`. You mentioned the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the, the groups in Texas. How has that been working in terms of cooperation? 

Mr. Kuhnert: It's it's been very successful. I think our industry has discovered as well as Devon that transparency is the key. You know, we want to sit down and share our practices as well as our needs to the stakeholders and regulators so that we can all benefit together. When I say needs, that often entails for for us anyway, is having a risk-based permitting approach so that if we're transparent and we can really share with the stakeholders and the regulators just what entails our overall water management process, including the the produced water that comes back during the flow back phase, then I think that that can really lead and has led to more of a comfort level from the regulators as well as the stakeholders to allowing us to do more with this produced water that comes back. 

Dr. Puls: What about the general public in communities where you operate? How does that factor into this whole issue of sustainable water management? Is there more `engagement` with the public, the local communities as you tackle these issues? 

Mr. Kuhnert: Yes. There definitely has been a lot more engagement especially after the drought from, from two seasons ago I guess that was the drought that started in what, fall of 2010 and really picked up there in the following summer. But there's no question that that is a major consideration that we have to address when we go into a community, because ultimately we have to earn our license to operate. And so it's no longer just ensuring the stakeholders that we're protecting their the groundwater and surface water from water quality problems, but it's actually you know drawdown concerns. We have to really be transparent and give them some level of comfort that we're not going to be taking too much water out of the basin that we're operating in. 

Dr. Puls: And what do you see as some of the greatest challenges going forward, in in terms of the whole issue of sustainable water management? 

Mr. Kuhnert: That's a good question. As we alluded to earlier, there's been tremendous technological advances in frack fluid designs that are more tolerant for lower quality water, as well as really innovations in the technologies around recycling or reuse. But what I believe is really necessary may not be quite as, I guess, science based necessarily or engineering based but it's just overall planning. Rolling up the sleeves and getting all these variables on the table at the same time to really design, you know, your best water management scheme based on the environment that you're operating in. I think that's the key as well as the stakeholders and the regulators also looking at a `holistic` approach when it comes to water problems. As we all know there's multiple users in a basin and I think to really come up with a pragmatic solution, you really have to bring all the users to the table and promote transparency and potential partnering to really come up with the best way to leverage resources to, to ultimately conserve water. 

Dr. Puls: Well thank you. I I really want to thank you for being with us today and and giving us these insights into not only how Devon is going forward and operating in new areas, but the industry as a whole. So thank you Nathan. 

Mr. Kuhnert: Well thank you for this opportunity. 