https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=egSTvBEBKi0 

2:53

```
garnish    v. 装饰（尤指食物）；（为合法扣押属于债务人或被告的钱财）传讯（第三方）      
profession  
```

Chicken Schnitzel: Meals in Minutes | Masterchef: The Professionals - BBC 

Chicken schnitzel. Breaded chicken, right? That's right. What's the Holstein? It's a nice fried egg, and the anchovy and caper butter that goes on top. Fine, right. 20 minutes. Schnitzel and Holstein. Shall we? Yeah. So the first thing, butcher the chicken down completely. All they need to use is just one breast. Very straightforward. It's like any other bird - two legs, two wings, two breasts, Nice. So... OK, and now I'm going to take the breasts off. So what I've done with this chicken breast, I just removed the skin, which we don't need. I don't want this breaded like this. It needs to be nice and thin, and then we're going to pane it. Otherwise, the breast is fatter at one end and thin at the other. That won't work, will it? No. So just gently bat it out. Mm. Now look. Mm. Nice and thin. So, the pane, always in this order. Seasoned flour, egg wash, and then your breadcrumbs and then onto your tray. Got it. Got it? Flour makes the egg stick to it, and the egg makes the breadcrumbs stick to it. That's right. And there you go. Very good. So what we need to do now is to get the chicken into the pan. What our chefs need to be really careful about is that this chicken's cooked all the way through. They need to just get a little bit of colour onto the breadcrumbs, then turn it over, colour the second side, then what I'm going to do is put some butter into the pan, onto a buttered paper, and into the oven. Now, that's a beautiful sight. The sauce is a brown butter sauce. And this is the Holstein. That's the one. So butter sauce, as Marcus is making here, is a beautiful thing, but it's all about the controlling of the butter, cos it can burn. You start to see the nutty colour coming out of the bottom. Is that a beurre noisette? Yes. Nut, brown butter. Capers are in there. Drop in some little chopped anchovies to the sauce. Lovely. Chopped parsley. Now to our egg. What we're going to do is we're going to pan-fry a duck egg. Yes. And as soon as this egg is cooked, we can bring the dish together. That schnitzel looks fantastic. Fried egg. Hmm-hmm! So there we have it. Chicken schnitzel with Holstein garnish. That's a lovely dish. 