https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kx7xnPdpdok
31:36

```  
facilitate   v. 使更容易，使便利；促进，推动
logistics    n. 物流；后勤工作
mortal       adj. 终有一死的，不能永生的；极其严重的，致命的；至死方休的，不共戴天的；极度的，极其强烈的；死的，临死的；（因罪孽深重而）灵魂无法得救的，不能蒙神恩得宽恕的；<非正式>想像得出的，可能；世间的，凡人的
plethora     n. 过多；过剩；[医] 多血症  
mediate      v. 调停，斡旋；影响……的发生，使……可能发生；促成（协议），找到……的解决办法；引起，形成；传递，传达；连接，沟通；处于中间地位
morbid       adj. 病态的；由病引起的；恐怖的；病变部位的
peripheral   adj. 外围的；次要的；（神经）末梢区域的
motif        n. 主题；主旨；图形；意念；基序，模体
phonetic     adj. 语音的，语音学的；音形一致的；发音有细微区别的
fulminate    vi. 爆炸；电闪；怒喝
prime        adj. 主要的；最好的；基本的
noted        v. 注意；特别提出；记录（note 的过去式及过去分词）
undertake    v. 承担，从事；承诺，答应；<英>在内侧行驶时赶上并超越（另一辆车）
ingredient   n. （食品的）成分，原料；要素，因素
acute        adj. 严重的，危险的；急性的，剧烈的；灵敏的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；锐角的；带尖音符的；（声音）高的，尖的
enroll       vt. 登记；使加入；把……记入名册；使入伍
consensus    n. 一致看法，共识
recuperate   vi. 恢复，复原；挽回损失  
metabolism   n. 新陈代谢
entry        n. 进入，加入；出场，莅临；门，入口；进入权，进入许可；参赛；参赛作品，竞赛答题；参赛人数，报名人数；登记，录入；条目，账目，记录
innate       adj. 先天的；固有的；与生俱来的
prospect     n. 前途；预期；景色
disclaim     vt. 否认，拒绝；放弃，弃权；拒绝承认
affirm       v. 断言，证实； 宣称拥护，支持；认可（判决，协议），批准；不宣誓而提供正式证词；给予（某人）情感支持（或鼓励）
fault        n. 错误；责任，过错；缺点，故障；断层；发球失误
```

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Carolyn Hutter: So, we’ll be getting started for our working lunch, and again, the purpose of this next session is to have a little bit of a report back and synthesis of the discussions that happened when the working groups had breakouts yesterday. So, for each of our working groups, there’s two co-chairs, and one of them will be coming up and giving a presentation. We will cut them off after 15 minutes, but they don’t need to feel that they used the full time [laughs]. And so first, we’re going to have Lauren Trepanier from the University of Wisconsin in `Madison` where she’s a professor in the Department of Medical Sciences and School of `Veterinary` Medicine, presenting on behalf of both her and Dr. Wen-Hung Chung. 

Lauren Trepanier: Good afternoon. I guess I would probably get `parole` if I was in that position right now, right? [laughter] So, after lunch. So, I just want to summarize hopefully accurately what the first working group -- 

Male Speaker: Won’t you [spelled phonetically] come over to the mic? 

Lauren Trepanier: This mic is supposed to be -- 

Male Speaker: Okay. 

Lauren Trepanier: -- working, but it’s not -- 

Female Speaker: It’s coming in and out, so -- 

Female Speaker: Could be a hole -- 

Lauren Trepanier: I’m taking it off. 

Female Speaker: Put it on your other `lapel`. 

Lauren Trepanier: Okay. So, I want to summarize what the -- now you can’t see me behind the computer. I want to summarize what the first working group talked about yesterday, focusing on basic research gaps, and I think that our charge was similar to some of the other working groups, looking at key gaps in research knowledge, various execution, maybe some out of the box or missing research perspectives, what additional genetic studies are needed, what’s most ready for translation, resources, and then promising areas over the next five years. So, as far as key gaps, the -- one of the first we came up with was defining the cellular processes that lead to the development of drug `neoantigens` prior to MHC presentation, so trying to understand what drives drug to the MHC molecule that then it gets presented to the immune system. And we kept that purposefully broad, but in the meeting, we talked about specific things that you would do to address that. The second would be characterizing how specific `culprit` drugs activate immune responses outside of MHC restriction because, certainly, MHC isn’t everything; characterization of co-factors that drive `immunogenicity`, whether that’s viral co-infection or organ dysfunction that leads to high `plasma` concentrations, or metabolic polymorphisms that are maybe less of a driver, but contribute in the absence of MHC or contribute to the presence of antigen presentation with the appropriate MHC allele. Then we talked a lot about `validation` of early diagnostic and prognostic markers of the first onset of clinical signs and that, you know, because these are rare infections -- rare diseases, you can’t really get baseline data on all patients that are treated, but the goal would be to have a strong surveillance system that we -- you could have collection of appropriate samples at -- very early in clinical onset before the skin is completely `sloughed` and things you can actually get; maybe do immunohistochemistry; you can get appropriate PBMCs, perhaps urine and plasma samples, things like that, as well as DNA to try to find diagnostic and prognostic markers. And then because it’s such a catastrophic disease, drug re-challenge, even though it’s a gold standard for diagnosis for adverse drug reactions, it’s not possible. So, some reliable confirmatory and safe in vitro challenge tests. And I think we all know what the barriers to execution are for rare diseases, especially ones that maybe have a complex `phenotype` -- is first a critical mass of patients that are well-phenotyped -- we talked about that a lot already -- and then in order to get those patients and get appropriate phenotyping, you need to see them early, so you need a `sentinel` surveillance system that can catch patients early, and then appropriate bio bank samples from `early onset of disease`. So, not just DNA, but also potentially PBMCs and RNA later, urine samples, plasma samples, marginal biopsy samples that are going to give you good tissue for histopathological assessment. We talked a lot about animal models. Certainly they’re lacking. There wasn’t a lot of enthusiasm for jumping right in with them because we know that many of these reactions are highly HLA-related, and animals obviously lack HLA restriction. Yes, you can humanize animals, but since there’s other things going on besides HLA, those models may not be successful, and initial attempts have not been successful. And so we sort of came with the consensus that animal models could be used to test specific pathways, but only after you understand the human phenotype better. And so they should be used in a more narrow range rather than just saying, “We’re going to try to reproduce this whole syndrome in animals.” As far as missing research perspectives, one question was, are drugs being recognized in similar ways to viral antigens? You know, does viral co-infection trigger these reactions? Do these reactions trigger viral `recrudescence`? And what is it about the epitopes that are being seen? Do they mimic or cross-react with viral antigens? And then the need to look just beyond T cells -- so we know that these reactions are probably mediated by CD8 T cells, but what are the other players? And K cells, T regulatory cells, dendritic cells, and looking at checkpoint blockade molecules to see if they are down-regulated or up-regulated in these patients. We also talked about `chemoinformatics` -- so looking at drugs that have been associated with TEN and looking at their structural motifs, and certainly since this has been done for other drug hypersensitivities in general, but specifically for TEN, and see if there are motifs that are uncommon or motifs that track, particularly with certain HLA associations that might help with drug development as you go forward. And then we talked about additional genetic studies. We didn’t spend a lot of time on this because there was a consensus that, yes, we need to look for more HLA associations because they’re drug-specific, and they’re ethnicity-specific, and so get a wider toolbox for advising different populations. Oxicam type NSAIDs were high on everyone’s list, lamotrigine, of course, and then ingredients in cough medicines, which have been associated with TEN, in particular ocular `complications`, but it’s not known which ingredients are actually important. And as far as most ready for translation, this is maybe a little disappointing, but we -- really, as far as translation in the next year or so, we really felt that predictive genetic testing is really the only thing ready for translation that’s sort of already in translation, and that some of the other things that we talked about as far as targeting certain molecules like granulysin and things is just not ready for `primetime` yet. I think we all agree that we need an expanded `consortium` with international leadership. The United States is -- it sounds like we’re behind the eight-ball and partially because we don’t have single-payer healthcare. That may be part of the problem, and our healthcare is very `fractionated`. We talked about a public-private funding model with shared responsibility from pharma, talking about, not just the decipations [sic], but the death of drugs, so that there’s buy-in from, you know, the drug development side or the drug safety side as well as from the physician-patient side and from the FDA side. And this infrastructure needs to provide the ability to screen and `biobank` patients in an early-onset phase and then an international registry of patients that have standardized phenotyping, ideally based on some of these early-phase biomarkers that could be developed and then molecular signatures within the biopsy itself. And these would provide the basis for adequately powered clinical trials. So, what’s promising over the next five years? Investigation of differences between maculopapular rash and SDSTEN as `therapeutic` targets, and Lars French is already working this. Sort of -- you know, what are the triggers that take a benign course into a catastrophic course? And then biomarkers in the acute phase to facilitate diagnosis -- so what are specific phenotypes? You know, obviously you need histopathology, but there may be subtypes, or there may be markers. Immunohistochemistry or QPCR are other things within the biopsy that would allow you to clearly define different subtypes, using those biomarkers to then go back and look at `prognosis`. So, who will progress? Which patients need `more intensive therapy`? What are negative `prognostic` indicators? And then hopefully treatment targets -- so if you know what’s changing in real time in that acute setting, you may know what you need to target to check that fulminate reaction that’s occurring. And I think in the larger group it was talked about: massive parallel sequencing of HLAs linked to medical records outcomes. So, you’ve got this background of genotyping that’s already in place as you go forward rather than trying to work backwards after the reactions occurs. And the buy-in for that is that, you know, the -- as someone pointed out yesterday, these HLAs have relevance for many, many diseases, not just rare adverse drug outcomes, and so there should be a drive for that to happen. And then we also talked about predictive tests in addition to HLAs, so pathway analyses of GWAS data, which Munir talked about. So, not just looking at the high-hit HLAs, but what’s the collective impact of polymorphisms in, say, you know, P450s, phase-two enzymes, transporters, things that are going to affect the amount of drug that’s actually available to add up or associate `non-covalently` with an HLA. And then there’s clear evidence that plasma drug concentrations actually probably are important, you know, so we’re sort of going back to metabolism again. And so, again, in that acute phase when you’re collecting samples, looking at urine, looking at plasma when you still may have washed out from the drug, may help you understand whether there are metabolic drivers as well as HLA drivers. So, `I’ll sit down and then open the floor for discussion.` [applause] 

Carolyn Hutter: Open for questions. 

Male Speaker: So, there’s a `plethora` of ideas and things to be done [laughs], but a challenge, and we’ve heard that several times today, is funding this. Several of us have -- are doing drug or research on drug eruptions, but have to run something else in the lab because it’s just not sustainable working on rare patient data and getting publications out with one -- within a year. And also the biobanking initiative going is not just from DNA, but just had RNA, fresh tissue, PBMCs -- is a lot in it. And one question -- I’m talking to Japanese. I don’t know if there’s any Japanese here, but -- 

Female Speaker: Move quickly. 

Male Speaker: Yeah. There’s -- they have a system from what I heard for TEN, and I noted that down where the pharma companies contribute from the forefront out -- are a part of each medication for the sickness leave or long-term sickness leave and unemployment of the patients and also for research center it’s in. In Switzerland -- I don’t know how it’s here, but when you buy a MacBook Air, you pay when you buy already for the destruction and `recuperation` of bits of it [laughs]. And then [laughs], as -- yeah, wondering when you were discussing from an FDA perspective, for you, it’s also an issue having good, quality data to be able to make the label good, and that’s going to come with financing. If there’s no way to try and, you know, get the companies to put a little cent or two off every package of pills going into that -- it’s in their interest. It’s in the interest of everyone from the front. 

Lauren Trepanier: Yeah, we had talked about that a fair amount -- about public-private cooperation. And so the various regulatory agency -- the various research funding agencies at the various countries and their `regulatory` agencies, but also pharma. I mean, it seems like an obvious source of funds and I’m not sure the `logistics` of making that happen in our political climate, but it seems like -- 

Male Speaker: [affirmative] 

Lauren Trepanier: -- that would be -- have to be a part of the puzzle. 

Male Speaker: Because it’s a pity. They come running when they’re in phase one or phase two -- have a severe or `adverse` eruption, and then they want to invest lots and really have results in a month. [laughs] They -- [laughs] that’s not the way it’s going to work. 

Lauren Trepanier: So, Cynthia, were you -- 

Cynthia Sung: Yeah. I was just going to ask if Taiwan could -- because they have the Taiwan Relief -- Drug Relief Foundation. Can you tell us a little bit more -- how did the drug companies contribute into that? 

Shuen-lu Hung: Yeah, but butchering most of the funding of -- for patient, not for research. So, far only -- not so many funding that they can do for research purpose. So, you know, so part of what we did was some funding from the drug company every year, so we get lots of modern so-menian [spelled phonetically] for me -- you a startup per year. But I’ve seen the official [spelled phonetically] -- we can push it -- common [spelled phonetically] to some research foundation. 

Lauren Trepanier: Munir? 

Munir Pirmohamed: So, will we discuss this, and funding is crucial here for -- not only for initiation, but also for maintaining any resources that you have as well as undertaking studies on the samples that you have with the new technologies which are coming. And as you know, all those new technologies increase the cost of each experiment that you do. But the majority of drugs that actually cause problems are generic, off-patent, and so, therefore, this is not a problem just for `pharma`. It’s actually a problem for healthcare; it’s a problem for regulators, and it’s probably unlikely that one funding agency can fund all of this. And so, therefore, it is probably important to have a global `consortium` to be able to do this. So, NIH working, for example, in the U.K. with Wellcome Trust, MRC with the Japanese who have funding agencies, et cetera, and that way that may be the only way to lead some kind of sustainable funding in an area like this. Obviously, there may be some small areas, which may be focused and so on, which could be funded by NIH, MRC, Wellcome Trust, et cetera, but here, you know, in terms of a global perspective, then one really needs to think about how one can develop, get the funding in, but also maintain that resource that is developed from that. 

Lauren Trepanier: Okay. 

Teri Manolio: So, maybe -- you know, I think it would come as no surprise that people recognize the need for funding and that -- see, you’re going to tell us that we should fund it. I think it would be very helpful to spend our 15 minutes really kind of focusing on what is it and, you know, what are the high-priority studies, what are the key needs, what are the things that are obstacles as Lauren kind of, you know, laid out for us I think very nicely? But in terms of a consensus of the group, where do you see the real pressure points where we could make some real progress? 

Carolyn Hutter: Neil. 

Neil Shear: Okay. Well, since I was recognized by the chair before you said that, I just want to make a comment I think puts it in some perspective, and the disclaimer is this will never happen here. In Sweden, there’s no-fault insurance that the manufacturers pay into and in Japan, too, so that sort of description -- in other words, if a patient has suffered harm from a drug or vaccine, there’s a central fund of money to help recognize that. And what it does is it recognizes the physician who prescribed the drug can still talk to the patient. They don’t have to run home and hide under the bed. They can keep their relationship with the patient going. They can initiate the patient’s participation in that fund to be recipient, and if adjudicated, it’s usually settled in about six months guaranteed, and it’s not years and years and years of litigation, hoping that you’re going to win some big lottery. And so what it does is it keeps the patient-physician relationship there, collects wonderful data, funded by industry, no fault anywhere in the world; you can’t go sue somewhere else. You can see the obstacles here. It’s actually -- it’s intensely sensible; it’s a good use of money, and extra money could be used for research, but if there are any lawyers watching, you -- you’re probably already calling your congressman saying, “Don’t ever let this happen.” And -- because that’s who would end up losing in the end is the lawyers. 

Lauren Trepanier: So, thank you, Neil, but I think I’m going to come back to Teri’s point and bring the question, and maybe I’ll start with Wen-Hung by just -- by asking you to `chime` in, you know, as you think about the items that came up -- you know, if you wanted to pick your top one. I know that’s always a pressure thing to do. From the discussion yesterday, what would you lead with? 

Wen-Hung Chung: Yeah, I think the most important research issue is -- we should do is get good sample -- the biobanking over the sample, especially from the very early stage. So, it’s very difficult because most of our samples we -- now we co-raised, we suspect it to cause a pigeon-back together. But if we were trying to file the biomarkers or the [unintelligible], we need some very early samples. That’s very, very difficult for most of us that research to do that. So, I think we need to have a call hole [spelled phonetically] and the prospect here and the -- or currently international consortium to correct the -- more sample size [spelled phonetically]. Yeah, it’s making -- surely has many, many other people -- and use scholars to do that. 

Lauren Trepanier: I think there’s some infrastructure here that you could just go forward and say, “All right, this is -- these are the types of biomarkers that have promise for development” -- plasma `proteomics`, just doing IHC, QPCR on biopsy samples, looking at PBMC, cytotoxicity, things like that. These are the samples that we would need and focus funding on study those -- those kinds of studies that are going to develop a bank of biomarkers. And, you know, the goal would be to have therapeutic targets because you’re never going to eliminate the disease completely, but if you have a good therapeutic target, then you could at least, you know, decrease `morbidity` and `mortality`. 

Carolyn Hutter: Surakameth? 

Surakameth Mahasirimongkol: I think it would be easier if we do it in a clinical trial or different interventions like -- because right now, we do not have exactly the efficacy data of `various` treatment options, IBHC, cyclosporine, corticosteroid. And if you run the trial in Taiwan’s and then, in the trials, you can get all the samples because when we enroll the patient into the clinical trial interventions, this is -- we need all the samples from them, right? And we monitor -- we can monitor them through -- until the final `sequela`. After the Stevens TENS was treatment, either which can die or they have complications, so why? And in that case, we would be easier to get, I mean, the biomarkers if there is one. So, I think a large clinical trial to test efficacy of various options may be good. 

Carolyn Hutter: Thank you. Mark? 

Mark Avigan: Yeah. I just -- to carry on with that, I think a clinical trial’s good, but one of the things that struck me about the presentations yesterday is that the identification of the disease is, you know, probably way too late in terms of really looking at effective interventions. And this is not specifically related to the basic science group, but I think in terms of takeaways for today, this would relate to some of the things that we talked about in group three about surveillance and identifying early markers of individuals that are in an early stage of Stevens-Johnson, TENS, where -- and if we could in fact accomplish that, then that would, I think, support a more effective enrollment and into a clinical -- into an intervention trial. 

Lauren Trepanier: Yeah, I was actually just thinking the same thing, and I don’t know if some of the people around the room who are really involved in this can talk about what you see as challenges of getting earlier onset identification of cases. [inaudible] Not? 

Male Speaker: -- back. 

Lauren Trepanier: Mark? 

Male Speaker: I wanted to follow up on actually what Mark had talked about yesterday that the numbers are too small to actually get the cases of interest from a clinical trial, and also you get them too late. So, by the time you get them, the thunderstorm has already happened, so you’re just getting the footprint of what already has happened, which is a lot of different injury markers. They’re not necessarily the `harbingers`. But what you can have, or what was mentioned yesterday, is the patients who have the positive marker -- for example, carbamazepine and that marker, 1502 -- the patients who don’t get the reaction. And so you can look for markers of people who don’t get a reaction and ask, “What in that mix of -- you know, from a biological perspective might explain the protection effect?” You know, if you could -- if you had an animal model, you could study -- for SJS, you could study it serially and on a timeline from initiation of exposure and then every step of the way. But since you don’t have that -- which would then be ideal that you could kind of find the early marker, the harbinger, but what you could do is look at individuals at a later point in the clinical trial who don’t get a reaction or who get a minor skin reaction who had some adaptation. 

Lauren Trepanier: Lars? 

Lars French: So, if I had to choose from all, I think it’s pretty clear that it’s immunologically driven. It’s pretty clear also that some of the patients who have a defined HLA, which is a risk factor -- some of them, despite that, won’t develop the disease, or a cofactor is needed. And I think we search for that cofactor -- would be really important. If we could target that, we would have a lower incidence, and we probably -- may be able to turn it off. HIV is a cofactor. In `ampicillin`, EBV is a cofactor. So, there’s some evidence it may be a `pathogen`. It may be signaling through innate pathways, and I think that’s really something that’s been under research and where it has to be looked at. 

Lauren Trepanier: And do you think the appropriate time to look at that is as the early surveillance and when reactions are ramping up or before the patient is treated? 

Lars French: Yeah, I think we have to really get as much samples as we can -- early samples, PBMC, and skin samples, and then run them with techniques -- beautiful techniques we have to try and get leads. But there’s quite some entry in-vitro stuff you can do, too, with hypothesis-driven and not non-biased, really hypothesis-driven, on PBMCs or on mixtures of PBMCs and carotenocides [sic]. And some of this you may be able to do by having the patients and knowing the patients and going back to them six months afterwards and getting the PBMCs and getting carotenocides from hair `follicles` or from `biopsy`, putting them in culture. And working with this, we know that we can do the lymphocide transformation test a few months after, and that works in those patients that survive. So, the -- it’s not only the acute phase. It’s getting material also later on in-vitro. 

Female Speaker: I think regardless, a fundamental infrastructure is needed and the capacity building is going to be key, and I think what maybe differentiates this from other initiatives is the need for broad, international collaboration to get the cases. And I would be interested from Teri and others in terms of within the NIH framework and FDA framework and, you know, maybe broad collaboration cross -- across not just the NIH but other FDA -- other regulatory agencies internationally given the international `presence` here and the need for international collaborations. Are there ways to actually facilitate that or make that happen? 

Teri Manolio: Well, sure. I mean, the NIH does -- we probably fund more research internationally than any other funding body funds outside of their country. So, there’s a -- and there are many good examples of collaborative projects that we’ve done, as Munir mentioned with the Wellcome Trust and the MRC and, you know, a whole variety of other agencies. So, I think that, you know, the bigger question may be how would one sustain such an effort because one of the challenges in the area of drug safety is that it never goes away. And once you get started down that road, which is, you know, an important road to start down, it’s not clear that the research agencies can sustain that effort. So, are there ways then to work with other agencies? And we’ve talked about a few of them here today in terms of the U.S., the CDC -- you know, our Centers for Disease Control, our Agency for Research Health and Quality. And you know, and those may be agencies that could pick up some of these efforts down the road, but I think, again, first, rather than perhaps sort of figuring out who’s going to fund this and how we make it funded, we need to define what the what is. So, if an international collaboration is something that sounds like everybody is enthusiastic about, what are the key things this international collaboration would do and how is it different from those that already exist? 

Female Speaker: I would say biobanking is sort of the fundamental sort of first step -- is getting samples that aren’t currently being collected, which includes PBMCs, which is not -- and tissue. And, you know, so there’s been a lot of work on getting DNA and DNA banks, but I think we need to `broaden our repertoire of samples` that are being collected, so if -- you know, DNA, RNA, serum, `plasma` cells. 

Carolyn Hutter: Okay. So, Munir and then Lars. 

Munir Pirmohamed: So, you -- we’ve heard that so many people have biobanks and collection already. I guess the question that you asked, Teri, is what is it -- what’s different? I think scale and `upscale` of what we do and tremendously increase the scale of what we do by this global collaboration. That’s number one in terms of difference. I think in terms of key factors that we need to look at, we need to look at the predictive biomarkers, the diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers, and key for that, particularly for the latter two, will be identifying patients early. Now, that is a challenge, and you’d have a lot of false positives, but having to -- getting those patients identified earlier, as was stated earlier today, and we discussed that extensively yesterday, would allow you to be able to identify those kind of diagnostic biomarkers, which allows them to be able to undertake stratified trials in smaller numbers of patients, which you -- at the moment, you can’t do because it’s such a rare disease. So, undertaking trial in this area is going to be immensely difficult. So, you know, having those kind of early markers which allow to be able to stratify, undertake kind of Bayesian-type trials, will be the only way to be able to then really test some of the therapeutic interventions. 

Carolyn Hutter: Lars? 

Lars French: I just wanted to add on to these two comments that biobanking can’t go, in my opinion, without a registry, and that’s, as we discussed before, with well-phenotyped cases so that you can have the clinical data to it. And then one big element if we were to have an alliance together is talk the same language -- so harmonization for the clinical characteristics we’re bringing in our registry, so that we can really exchange well. 

Carolyn Hutter: Yeah, and I think part of that is also thinking about expanding to areas with high numbers of cases that don’t have the infrastructure in place yet, and so sort of both `retrospectively` putting together groups that are working, and then thinking about how to best move forward into new areas as well. Steve and then we’re going to move on to the next group. 

Steven Leeder: Well, I think together with the early identification with patients and collection of biomedical samples, whether it’s plasma or cellular materials, there needs to be centers that can receive them and work on different parts of the elephant. And so Lauren and her summary of what their group did identified, you know, the various steps between drug administration, drug bioactivation, processing of the neoantigens, all the way through to the immune response, probably you’re looking at four or five specialized centers that can work on each of the components that might be involved. But there also needs to be a way of sending, you know, `peripheral` blood and mononuclear cells from Kansas City, Missouri, to Switzerland or wherever that aspect of the big picture is going to be worked upon. And so I think there’s a lot of elements toward making this happen that would have to be worked out as well. 

Lauren Trepanier: All right, very good point. Thank you. So, we’re going to turn over now to the report back from working group two. I don’t know who -- if Howard or Surakameth is going to the podium. 

Male Speaker: You want to do the first slide and I’ll go [inaudible]. [end of transcript] 