https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ic-w5StBthU

Slavery & the Constitution: the 13th Amendment 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

(Music) Today I want to talk about the 13th Amendment, slavery and the Constitution before the Civil War. And one of the most interesting things about the 13th Amendment, which I'm sure we all know has, says that slavery is now unconstitutional. That was not the original 13th Amendment. The original 13th Amendment said something very different. This original 13th Amendment known as the Corwin Amendment named after it's floor sponsor Thomas Corwin from Ohio, was an attempt in 1861 to stop southern succession. The original 13th Amendment in fact proposed that no Amendment and no legislation could be passed regulating slavery in the States in which it existed. So every time you see the 13th Amendment you should think about the original 13th Amendment. Even though we have the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery, another interesting thing about slavery in the Constitution is that the term slavery is never mentioned until the 13th Amendment. It's never mentioned anywhere in the Constitution so we have to infer from other clauses, the existence of slavery and it's protection in the Constitution. The first place that we see it is in Article 1 Section 2 what we call the Enumeration Clause. We know that our House membership , membership in the House is determined by population. The more population you have, the more representation you have in the House. During the Constitutional Convention though there was a lot of concern about simply equating population with representation in the House, especially because of slavery. Southern states and even Northern states that had slavery, and by the time of the convention most states in the North got rid of the Institution, part of the revolutionary `fervor`, but in the South where there was a lot of manumission, slavery started up again, we had a huge amount of over-representation in a sense in the South and the Northerners were concerned that the South would have, would be over-represented in the House. The compromise that they developed as we all know is called the three-fifths compromise and that is simply that every, every slave in the South would count as three-fifths of a person for the purpose of determining representation in the House. Again the word slavery is not mentioned but there's no question that the three-fifths clause was designed to apply to slaves. And the there's the slave trade which is mentioned in two parts of the Constitution. In our lecture on the Amendment process I said the only, there were two Amendments that could never be passed, two unconstitutional Amendments. One would have been to decrease equal representation in the Senate for states, the other one had to do with slavery and that was that no Amendment could be passed before 1808 abolishing the slave trade. That is also prohibited, Congress was also prohibited from making any legislation that would prohibit or hinder the slave trade until 1808. So there's two more places in the Constitution that deal with slavery without mentioning the word slavery at all. And finally, and the most controversial one in terms of real on the ground politics that played out before the Civil War, is what we refer to as the fugitive slave clause in Article 4 and that prohibited states from refusing to serve up or return to other states fugitives from law and a slave by definition would be a fugitive from the law if he or she escaped the Plantation and headed to a free state. Article 4 required Governors of states to return to the state in which they `absconded`, fugitives, most particularly, slaves. And I want to talk a little bit about that fugitive slave clause. The fugitive slave clause again requires that any state Governor that finds in its' territory someone who's a fugitive from justice, return them to the state in which they `absconded`, really motivated a lot of politics, a lot of political development in the Antebellum period of the United States. Many of what we call the great compromises in American politics before the Civil War were great `compromises` because they really did prevent the Civil War from happening much earlier in American political development. And in the great compromises in the first half of the 19th century in the United States there was always some kind of language about this article, the fugitive slave clause. Again, not mentioning slaves in this clause, but every body knew exactly what it was about. For example, Northern states routinely ignored this clause, routinely ignored it. A slave would abscond from the Plantation in Georgia, find his or her way to the North, say a state like Wisconsin, which had a huge anti-slavery component present it that state and they would hide them. Fugitive slave catchers, these were people who made their business hunting men and women and children who snuck off the Plantation in the South, would come into these Northern free states and they were privateers, they were private people and kidnap in a sense families or the individuals who absconded. This angered Northern states tremendously. Many of them passed anti-kidnapping laws to try to prevent this but the South because of its' over-representation in the House because of the three-fifths clause and because of that the over-representation in the Electoral College was able to pass Federal legislation that few times the early 19th century sought to (Inaudible) and make stronger the fugitive slave clause of Article 4. In fact, we have to understand the fugitive slave clause requires Governors. It requires the states themselves to return fugitive slaves. Well what happens when they don't, the South said. Look at what's happening in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, Massachusetts; these states are refusing to give us our property back, our slaves back. Well, after 1850 Congress allowed and provided for Federal Marshalls to aid in the recovery of fugitive slaves. Federal Marshalls aid in the enforcement of Article 4 and in many ways this led to the beginning of the Civil War. This really engrained into Northern minds, how much power the South had in the National government because of the enumeration clause. Again, that would magnify Southern power in the House, it also magnified Southern power in the Electoral College. We have to understand that but for two individuals before 1860, the South, every President was from the South, it's because of this over-representation that we got Southern Presidents and therefore Presidents who would sign into law legislation from a Southern dominated Congress that sought to(Inaudible) and enforce the fugitive slave clause in particular. And leading up to the war there were many, many court cases involved, involving Federal Marshalls who were arrested by state governments for kidnapping fugitive slaves that were in their state territories. And in an interesting kind of about face, we had Northern states in the late 1850's espousing the doctrine of states rights which just a few years later would be espoused by the South because of succession. And you can understand why Northern states would be talking about states rights as opposed to national rights because the national government was dominated by Southern slave interests because of this over-representation. So while slavery is not mentioned in the Constitution until our second 13th Amendment, it's certainly present there and it certainly spurred American political develop[ment in the 19th century in ways that still reverberate into today. Thank you. (Applause) (Music) Freedom 101 is made possible by generous support from Woody Young and the University of Oklahoma Alumni Association Freedom 101 is a program of the Institute for the American Constitutional Heritage at the University of Oklahoma. For more videos and podcasts visit freedom.ou.edu. (Music) 01:09:52.833,00:00:00.000 