Weaponizing Rhetoric - Ian Hill | The Open Mind

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

HEFFNER: Alexander Heffner, your host on The Open Mind. My guest today is author of the Penn State University Press volume “Advocating Weapons, line:80% War, and Terrorism: Technological and Rhetorical Paradox.” line:80% Ian Hill is professor of history and theory at the University of British Columbia and I wanted to start right away Ian and read from a passage of your introduction to give line:71% our viewers an overview. You write, “technologies do not kill alone and line:71% neither do people. Both technology and people depend upon each other as well as upon language, language that is violent and language that motivates violence: weapons, rhetoric, or the ways by which people argue, debate, describe, advocate and dissent against weapons as well as how weapons themselves motivate belief and action is such a language,” and that's what we're here to discuss. And in that context, I wanted to ask you from the outset, as a scholar of rhetoric and weapons, are you more concerned today about the weaponization of the rhetoric itself or the line:71% rhetoric of the weapons? HILL: Thank you very much for having me here. Alexander. This is, that's a great question. And it's hard to say which is which is more worrisome or not. I think these days there is a great concern for how people are using language to motivate violence and the ways that people express violent thoughts and how there's, how these violent words are being proliferated online, especially. So I think maybe these days I would say that I'm most concerned with what we might call the sort of weaponization of language especially for you know, sort of maybe information war and propagandistic purposes. HEFFNER: And that may be because of the nuclear line:71% deterrent, right? Because of where we are when it comes to recognizing that technologies have evolved to be destructive on a mass level, but we haven't experienced that massacre in some decades or even centuries, right? line:71% HILL: Right. And I think this is why fairly recently when Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un got into their, some sort of saber rattling regarding nuclear arsenals it was maybe a little bit jarring to the sort of the general population because nuclear weapons had, of course, we still have them. We still have the arsenals we're renewing the nuclear weapons as the nuclear weapons arsenal gets renewed, it happens in the background. We don't really notice about it. There's rarely even headlines or journalism about the nuclear weapons program. And so it was a reminder that nuclear weapons still exist. The deterrents might or might not still be working, but we haven't, as you say, experienced any actual nuclear attack for a very long. HEFFNER: And what inspired you to write this line:71% particular book? HILL: Well, I'm very much interested in the ways that people tend to sort of repeat sort of patterns, linguistic practices or we tend to say very similar things over time but we forget, right, that, we've been here in the past, say with weapons in particular. And every time a new weapon is introduced there's a certain novelty to this weapon and we express ourselves in similar ways to past weapons when they appeared. But contexts have changed rights; conflicts are different and weapons become more powerful more far-reaching and more deadly. HEFFNER: What's your assessment of the way that we're talking about weapons today? line:71% HILL: 