https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xq5KuBKo8Go 

```  
conform     v. 遵守，符合；顺从，随潮流；一致，相吻合
affection   n. 喜爱，关爱；爱恋，爱慕之情；精神状况，感情；疾患，病；影响  
grasp       v. 抓牢，握紧；理解，领会；抓住（机会）
temporal    adj. 暂时的；当时的；现世的   
cognition   n. 认识，认知；认识（或认知）的结果
recognition  n. 承认，认可；表彰，赞誉；认出，识别；（计算机的）声音文字识别能力  
impute      vt. 归罪于，归咎于；嫁祸于      
```

AC Grayling: What I Believe, Festival of Dangerous Ideas 2015 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

[ Music ]  Our next speaker is distinguished philosopher, A.C. Grayling, `notable` for his ability to bring philosophy to life for contemporary readers and audiences. He's the founder and master of the new College of Humanities and associated with the new Atheism movement sometimes described as the fifth `horseman` of new atheism. He has written many books on philosophy in a variety of subjects. Among his most recent are "The Challenge of Things," "Liberty in the Age of Terror," and "The God Argument. A.C. Grayling. 

[ Applause ]  My apologies for this dramatic entrance. [laughter] One of my toes had an encounter with reality last weekend, and I'm still recovering from it. I'm told actually having a walking stick adds a little [inaudible] I might take it up. [laughter] Well my belief is based on having had the most tremendous good luck really to be able to devote a lifetime of study, of philosophy and of teaching philosophy, and philosophy rests on two great questions. One of them is, what is there? What is the nature of reality? What is this world of ours? And the other great question is, what matters. What's of value in that world. And you can see that the two questions are connected with one another because of course if your answer to the first question, what is there, what exists, is that there are among all the natural phenomenas studied by the science there are also supernatural agencies, gods, and goddesses perhaps with an interest in us and who we marry and what we eat and so on, then of course the question of what's of value in the world is decided for us by that fact because what matters today is that we should `conform` in some way to the demands or requirements which are placed on us by supernatural reality. But if the world, the universe is just a realm of natural law, if all there is is the physics of space and time, then the question of what matters in the world is up to us to decide. We have to think about how we're going to live, what kinds of lives we're going to make for ourselves, and how we're going to relate to other people. And that is a very important responsibility. In fact, it is a kind of universal responsibility, because think of this, supposing that the standard story that we have about the origins and nature of the universe is pretty well as accepted, a big bang, a `fluctuation` in the quantum `vacuum`, which gives rise by extremely rapid inflation in the early [inaudible] seconds of the universe's history, and then the universe evolves, and in the course of this evolution after about 10 billion years, life begins to appear in one tiny little `corner` of the universe. It evolves eventually into a form of life, which is conscious of itself and able to reflect and to think, and that's us. And supposing that our species manages to survive for a while before we wipe ourselves out with greed and war and the rest, and in that little interval of time, when we are capable of love and kindness but also capable of `greed` and conflict with our fellows, in that little space of time, if the amount of harm, the amount of pain and suffering comes to `outweigh` the amount of good, and then that little candle is snuffed out in the universe and all its `immensity` continues until the cold death or the collapse of the universe after many more billions of years, well then that little `flicker` of `self-consciousness` with its outweighing of suffering over good, will have made the entire history of the universe a bad thing, a bad that had existed at all. But if the good, if the joy, if the love and affection and friendship, if the experience that flowers in that little moment in the universe's history which is us, if that outweighs the bad, then it's a good thing that the universe existed because the quantum of happiness and of pleasure and joy outweighs the quantum of bad. So we have a big responsibility, in fact a universal responsibility, to make the universe a good place by being nice to one another, [laughter] and really the thought, the thought that we could do that, it's seems so simple and such a direct observation, but it's a very profound one. It's a very deep one, and the depth of it can be illustrated in the following way. I believe that the universe is a realm of natural law. I don't think there are supernatural agencies. I think our beliefs, our religious beliefs, have come to us from our very earliest ancestors trying to make sense of the world around them, and it's very easy to see how it might have been for them thinking how do you explain the wind and the storm and the movement of the sea and the `rustle` of the leaves other than by imputing to the world around us what we feel in our own experience. That is the experience of agency, of being able to do something. I pick up a stone and throw it into the pond, I make a splash. That's something that I caused to happen. So the wind must be caused by an agency like me only much bigger and perhaps invisible, and also the earthquake or the tides of the sea, and so to `impute` agency to things in the world, it's a very natural thing to do, and after that, bit by bit, of course the idea of these agencies being conscious beings and perhaps the possibility of a relationship with them must be merged out of the early animistic thinking of our ancestors. I have a suspicion by the way which started with some bloke, and I'm sure it was a bloke, who thought to himself if I could persuade my fellow tribesman that I can make contact with these agencies and get them to bring the rain or help us defeat our enemies, then I'm going to get all the girls and the money. [laughter] And that's probably where it all began. [applause] And of course the `temporal` powers in our world would have seen the great utility of having an invisible policeman on duty all the time who can see what you're up to even when you're on your own in the dark, and so that would be one reason why the temporal powers would have supported the guy who thought that he could talk to these agencies. So there is a long and a complex history there, but if we believe ourselves, our most intelligent selves, investigating the nature of physical reality, over the last many centuries, especially in the modern era since the 16th and 17th Century with the rise of the natural sciences, we have come to an understanding of this extraordinary universe of ours with all its beauty, with all its range and depth, and out of that understanding we've learnt that actually it is us, we who have to make decisions about what matters, what's of value, and how we should act towards one another. And part of that realisation is that there is not a one size fits all story about the nature of the good and worthwhile life. But there is many good lives, there is many worthwhile lives full of success and achievement and affection as there are people to live them. Because people are very diverse. We are very different from one another, and the understanding of those differences is what gives rise to tolerance and kindness, to the `recognition` that we must give others their space, their opportunity, to live and flourish too if only we would be `collegial` with them. But that heavy duty therefore to think, you all know what Bertrand Russell famously said on this matter, that most people would rather die than think and most people do, is of course the source of great problem in our world, so we have to think, we've got to think, what is the right and the good. How should we relate. What do I owe my fellows in society. How can I grasp the opportunity to be kind and to make our world a good place, because after all, it's the only world we've got. Thank you very much. [ Applause ] 