https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CGiu0hlVOzY 

10 Most Beautiful Hummingbirds In The World 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Hummingbirds are the smallest of birds, most species measuring 7.5-13 cm (3-5 in) in length. The smallest `extant` bird species is the 5 cm (2 in) bee hummingbird, which weighs less than 2.0 g (0.07 oz). They are known as hummingbirds because of the humming sound created by their beating wings which flap at high frequencies `audible` to humans. They hover in mid-air at rapid wing-flapping rates, which vary from around 12 beats per second in the largest species, to in excess of 80 in some of the smallest. With over 300 species of hummingbirds known to us, here are the 10 most beautiful hummingbirds in the world. 

Number 10. The male Booted Racket-tail is so spectacular with `metallic` green `plumage` and an `elaborate` tail longer than the tiny bird itself. This hummingbird is an Andean mountain specialty, found in mid-elevation woodlands from Colombia and Venezuela south to Bolivia. Three subspecies are recognized, with either white or rufous boots. Males of different subspecies show variable tail length and `racket` colors. These plumage differences may eventually lead to this hummingbird being split into several species. Male Booted Racket-tails establish feeding territories and `aggressively` chase away other males as well as large insects, such as bumblebees and hawk moths, that try to feed in their territory. Males attract females by displaying their leg puffs and clapping their tail streamers together during `steep` U-shaped dives. 

Number 9. The green-breasted mango is a species of hummingbird from tropical America. Adults of this medium-sized hummingbird species are 11-12 cm (4.5 in) in length. The adult male has `glossy` bright green upperparts. His throat and chest have a relatively narrow matte black central area, bordered with blue-green. The `flanks` are bright green, and the black of the chest tapers onto the belly. This species is very similar to the closely related black-throated mango. Although the male green-breasted mango has less extensive black on the underparts, this and other plumage differences are not always easy to confirm in the field because the birds appear all-black. 


Number 8. The Rufous-crested Coquettes are found in the southern Central American countries of Costa Rica and Panama, into South America, the countries of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru south into Bolivia. Their natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland and `montane` forests, as well as heavily degraded former forest. They are rare, yet widely distributed in the eastern lowland areas; and absent from northwestern Amazonia. Rufous-crested Coquettes measure about 7.5 - 8 cm (3 in) in length, including the tail. Males have a very dark green `plumage`, except for the white `rump` and `rufous`, dark-tipped crest , `glossy` green throat patch (gorget) and `elongated` white feathers on the upper chest. 

Number 7. Anna's hummingbird, native to the west coast of North America, was named after Anna Massena, Duchess of Rivoli. They have a straight, shortish bill and a fairly broad tail. When perched, the tail extends beyond the wingtips. Anna's Hummingbirds are mostly green and gray, without any rufous or orange marks on the body. Male Anna's Hummingbird is striking, with a completely `iridescent` pinkish-red head and `gorget`. Often appearing blackish in strong sunlight, the brightest colors are most easily seen in overcast conditions. Frequently seen in backyards and parks, these birds feed on nectar from flowers using a long extendable tongue. They also consume tree sap, small insects and other arthropods caught in flight or `gleaned` from vegetation. 

Number 6. The long-tailed sylph is a species of hummingbird found in Bolivia, Colombia, `Ecuador`, Peru, and Venezuela. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forest. The male long-tailed sylph carries characteristic `elongated` tail feathers. These feathers are so ridiculously long that they hinder his flight: it is difficult for him to carry such finery every day when he relies on his flying skills to survive. Female sylphs, whose tails are of a more modest size, pick out and mate with the males with the longest tail feathers. They therefore ensure that they are mating with a male who is so fit and healthy that he can live well enough to come into breeding condition even when carrying a heavy load. Females do not `possess` these long tail feathers, as to make laying and incubating eggs easier. 

Number 5. The violet-crowned woodnymph, also known as the purple-crowned woodnymph, is found from Guatemala and Belize to northern Colombia and western Venezuela. The adult male violet-crowned woodnymph has a violet crown, upper back, shoulders and belly, a shiny green throat and breast, green lower back, and a deeply forked blue-black tail. The violet-crowned woodnymph is a common to abundant bird of wet lowlands and foothills to 2500 m, and may move higher when not breeding. Besides feeding on `nectars`, this hummingbird also takes small insects and spiders as an essential source of protein. 

Number 4. The wire-crested thorntail occurs in Colombia, `Ecuador` and Peru. This species is one of the smallest birds on Earth, with a mature weight of around 2.5 g (0.09 oz). Males measure from 10.5 to 12 cm (4.1 to 4.7 in) in length, against the females' length of around 6.5 to 7.5 cm (2.6 to 3 in) long. The male of the eastern slopes of the northern Andes has a crest of brilliant green feathers, along with elongated tail feathers that curve outward and taper from a broad base to a slender tip. The outermost is longest and each successive feather toward the center is shorter. All are steel-blue with white shafts, making a most striking and curious display when spread. These birds feed on nectar from flowers using a long extendable tongue, or catch insects on the wing. They require frequent feeding while active during the day and become `torpid` at night to `conserve` energy. 

Number 3. The marvellous spatuletail is a medium-sized hummingbird with white, green and `bronze`, `adorned` with blue crest feathers, a brilliant turquoise gorget, and a black line on its white underparts. A Peruvian endemic, the marvellous spatuletail is unique among birds in having just four feathers in its tail. Its most remarkable feature is the male's two long racquet-shaped outer tail feathers that cross each other and end in large violet-blue discs or "spatules", which he can move them independently. Due to `habitat` loss, small population size, and limited range, the marvellous spatuletail is evaluated as Endangered on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. In 2006, American Bird Conservancy provided Peruvian conservation partner ECOAN with support to sign a conservation easement with the Pomacochas Community to protect and manage about 100 acres (0.40 km2) of significant habitat for the marvelous spatuletail hummingbird. This conservation `easement` is the first of its kind in Peru. 

Number 2. The red-tailed comet can be found in northern and central Bolivia, occasionally in southern Peru. This bird is also frequently found around human habitation in agricultural areas, cities and towns. The red-tailed comet is one of the largest hummingbirds, with males reaching a length of 22 cm (8.7 in), and females up to 15 cm (6 in). The `plumage` of males is largely green, with a shining `gorget`. The head is green, while the back and rump are reddish violet. The male has a deeply forked, spectacular, long, `iridescent`, golden-reddish tail, longer than the length of the body, while the female has a shorter reddish-bronze tail. 

Number 1. The fiery-throated hummingbird is a medium-sized hummingbird of the Talamancan montane forests of `Costa Rica` and western Panama. It is a common to abundant bird of montane forest canopy above 1400 m, and also occurs in scrub at the woodland edges and clearings. The adult fiery-throated hummingbird has shiny green body plumage, a blue tail, and a white spot behind the eye. It often looks dark, but when the light catches it at the right angle, it shows a brilliant blue crown, yellow-bordered bright orange throat, and violet-blue chest patch. The genders are similar, but young birds have rufous fringes to the head plumage. Male fiery-throated hummingbirds defend flowers and `scrubs` in their feeding territories, and are dominant over most other hummingbirds. They will, however, allow females to share their food resources. 