https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpMBuHXYTes

```
accustomed    adj. 习惯的；通常的；独有的
fascinate  
harness        
genuine    
disengage     vt. 使脱离；解开；解除  
outward       adj. 向外的；外面的；公开的；外服的；肉体的
impart        vt. 告知，传授；透露，透漏；赋予，给予（尤指抽象事物）
subtle        adj. 不易察觉的，微妙的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；灵活的，巧妙的；含蓄的，隐晦的；<古>狡猾的
esteem  
authentic  
reverse          
foregoing   adj. 前述的；前面的；在前的
```

7 Keys to Managing Millennials

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - 

If you're in people leadership, management, HR, there is one demographic you cannot afford to misunderstand or not connect with, and that is the `millennials` or sometimes called Generation Y. This group of young people born between the late 1980's and the early 1990's are a fascinating bunch of human beings. They bring with them some great stuff into the workplace, they are innovative, they are agile, they're natural networkers, they are tech savvy, they are the digital natives, but they bring some challenges with them too. They're a generation who's approach to respect can often seem a little bit jarring to older generations, they're very casual in the workplace in a way that sometimes is off-putting to other people who are of an older generation who are colleagues in a team environment. They're a generation who's approach to work ethic can often seem a little bit different and they tend to not stick around as long as older generations do, in fact if you look at the average length of tenure for Generation Y or the Millennials it's around the 2.6 year mark. So on balance there can be some challenges, there can be some positives, but the simple reality is this, if you look at most of the current research Gen Y will be half of the world's working population by the year 2020 and that is why I say you cannot ignore this group. So here's the challenge. As a leader, as a manager, how do you get the best from the young people that you are leading or managing? Now I've been working this space for a number of years now in fact, I first started tracking some of the trends in different generations back in 2004, at that point the Millennials and Generation Y were an object of fascination or frustration for many employers now they are a daily reality. It's not just a topic we're discussing as a theory this is the daily reality and a necessity for every leader. So here are seven keys to getting the best from Millennials or Gen Y in your team or in your workplace. 

The first key is this. If you're a people leader or a manager you must put relationship before role. For this young group, relationship is everything. They will not be loyal to brands or to teams but they will be loyal to people. And so the relationship you build is absolutely critical in many ways they've typified that old phrase "I don't care how much you know, "Until I know how much you care." And so as a leader, as a boss, what's the relationship you're building with them? Do they know that you care about them, not just as employees, but as people? So the important critical thing here is you've got to be authentic, you've got to be real, you've got to build trust with this group, there must be a sense of transparency and openness. Now this doesn't mean if you want to be interested in them you've got to be interested in the same things, and this is the danger. I often see managers who in an effort to connect with younger staff try to dress like them and talk like them, listen to the same music as their young staff, and my simple message is don't bother. They don't want you to be like them, they want you to be yourself. Now I often refer to people who try to dress like young people and try to be cooler, I refer to them as 'generational transvestites.' They don't want you to do this, don't try and be like them. Be yourself, be real, be genuine, be authentic, that is the pathway to trust and to respect with this group. So the first key, put relationship before role. Second key for you to get the best from Millennials or Generation Y is you must keep them challenged. If you look at all the data across many years now looking at what is it that Gen Y or Millennials are looking for in a career or in a role, number one, most important thing above competitive salary is education, opportunities for growth, for advancement, the danger zone is when this group get bored, when they start to disengage, when they're not feeling that stretch. Now I understand there's often a frustration or a hesitation in bosses who'll say "well hey if they're only going to be here for 2.6 years on average how much training do I really want to invest in them?" And I understand that. The old saying though is one to bear in mind that there is only one thing worse than training your staff and having them leave and that is not training your staff and having them stay. And you need to realize in a mobile workforce, which is now what we all know and experience, you may train staff members and have them leave, but you'll often find too that the staff members you have come into your team have been trained by the person before you so there's a bit of a swings and roundabouts scenario here. The key message is they will stay longer, they will be more engaged, and they will perform better if you keep them challenged, so training and opportunities for advancement are absolutely critical. Number three, you need to make flexibility a priority. So if number one, the first thing that this group are looking for in a job is opportunity for advancement, to be changed and challenged. 

number two is flexibility. I'm talking flexibility in work times, start times, finish times, the structure of work, the location of work. And hey, we've talked about flexibility for years and yet to be really honest we're still not good at doing it. There are workplace cultures that prize and value those who turn up at a certain time and finish at a certain time and color inside the lines. We want to make sure that you're here and visible. Whether you're productive or not is sort of beside the point. We need to break that culture. And I want to ask what is the culture you have in your team? Do you speak the language of flexibility but in subtle and unspoken ways punish those who try to push the envelope and develop flexible work patterns. 

Number four, fourth key to getting the best from Millennials or Generation y is you need to give regular, positive feedback. One of the things I see worldwide in working with leaders trying to manage young staff is a tension point where managers feel like young team members can be a bit high maintenance - always needing to be thanked or praised. There's this sense that they come into work in the morning and there's almost an expectation that the boss will say "thank you for being here today, we're so grateful that you've arrived" and employers that I speak to will say "why do I have to thank them? I pay them to be here!" And the reality is you do have to thank them. This is a generation who have been raised in an era we now dub in retrospect the era of self esteem. They have been told their whole lives you're special, you're magnificent, you're unique, and so they've become accustomed to receiving extrinsic, external praise and validation. In fact some research done a few years ago asked Millennials how often they wanted praise from their boss. Now 60% said once a day, 35% said two to three times a day would be even better if that's okay. So you may find that jarring and think 'are you serious, do they really need that much encouragement and praise?' The simple answer is yes, and so you may find that you need to dial it up a bit, give a whole lot more very clear, deliberate positive feedback to this group because they're looking for it. 

Number five, fifth key to getting the best from this group, is to embrace their ideas. Smart leaders are beginning to realize this young group coming into the workplace with bright eyes and having just finished education can be a phenomenal source of innovation. This is because they come in with a fresh perspective, but they also come in with a boldness and a confidence to challenge the status quo. Previous generations would start their careers with almost a sense of timidity and fear, "I'll just fly under the radar, learn the ropes, figure my way around and then I'll start to put up my hand once I know how things work." And yet this generation come in and have this `boldness` to ask why do we do it that way? And again smart leaders realize that can be a phenomenal opportunity for innovation. And so when this group come in and challenge the process and suggest ideas, how do you respond? Be honest. Do you see that as a threatening thing? As a challenge to your authority? Or do you see it as an opportunity to get a different perspective from a younger generation with fresh eyes. And if you leverage this group's perspective, their fresh ideas, their insights, you're going to be amazed at the innovation it leads to, but also the sense of ownership and empowerment that will bring from them. 

Number six, you need to be values-driven as an organization. Now for many years we talked about the fact that Generation Y, the Millennials, wanted to work for companies who's values matched their own. Back in 2008 there was a study done that found 86% of millennials would consider leaving an organization if that organization's values didn't match their own. And there was a lot of commentary at the time, and to be honest I sort of agreed with it, that said well hey, once the economy gets tough, if there's a recession or a down-turn that's when the Millennials will say well my values are important but really is it that important? Is job security somehow more important than that? And to be honest, to an extent, we've seen that to be the case. When that same research study was done three years later, in 2011, only 56% of Gen Y's or Millennials said they would leave a job if their values didn't match, but just stop on that point. More than half of them would be willing to forego a role that is satisfying in every other way, that has a good pay packet, that is secure and predictable if that company's values don't match their own personal values. And so what are the values of your organization? Do you live them out and do you actually have opportunities for this younger generation to express their values and make sure there's a values match? So for this group that is absolutely critical. 

Number seven, final key if you want to get the best from this group, you need to adopt the role of coach. This is a generation who, despite the fact that they can seem very confident and outward going in the sense they've got it all together, they are looking for mentoring, they are looking to learn from the wisdom of older generations, if that wisdom is shared in a constructive and a respectful way. Of course you can't start with a "when I was your age" routine but mentoring for this group is critical, they're looking for it, and yet the sad thing is well over a third of them report that older generations seem disinterested or unwilling to engage with them in the workplace. How do we break that culture? How do you set up an environment where older generations can impart some of their wisdom to young people and hopefully reverse mentoring then occurs, where some of the things younger generations bring will sharpen the older generation as well. Because I guess this is the key message. Every generation has something to offer. Particularly this Millennial generation who come in with a sense of energy and enthusiasm. Your role as a leader is to harness that energy, harness that enthusiasm, and get the very best from this group. 