https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bAG8CJkmDcQ

38:48

```
spiritual  
devoid         adj. 缺乏的；全无的  
culmination    n. 终点，高潮；<旧>（天体的）达于中天
arena          n. 舞台；竞技场
haunt          v. （鬼魂）出没；萦绕在……心头；（长期）困扰；常去（某地）
charisma       n. 个人魅力，感召力；神赐的力量，神授的能力；非凡的领导力
compliment     
strain  
caricature     n. 人物漫画；夸张的描述；漫画艺术，漫画手法；讽刺描述法；（人或物的）可笑（或怪诞）样式
obscure        adj. 昏暗的，朦胧的；晦涩的，不清楚的；隐蔽的；不著名的，无名的
prodigious     adj. 惊人的，异常的，奇妙的；巨大的  
abiding  
encore        n. 再演唱的要求；经要求而再唱
perplex    
vulgar  
integrate     v. （使）合并，成为一体；（使）加入，融入群体；（使）取消种族隔离；求……的积分；表示（面积、温度等）的总和，表示……的平均值
transcend     v. 超出，超越；胜过（某人），超过（某项成就）
emit          v. 排放，散发（尤指气体、辐射物）；发出（声音或噪音）；发行，发表
grasp         v. 抓牢，握紧；理解，领会；抓住（机会）
articulate    vt. 清晰地发（音）；明确有力地表达；用关节连接；使相互连贯
fright  
intangible  
lullaby       n. 摇篮曲；催眠曲
implication    n. 含义；暗示；牵连，卷入；可能的结果，影响
perfume  
conscience     n. 良知，良心；内疚，愧疚
conceive  
tangible  
spectator      n. （尤指体育比赛的）观看者，观众；旁观者
disposal       n. 处理，清除；（土地、财产等的）变卖，转让；<文>安排，安置；<美>污物碾碎器
clue  
esteem  
mastery  
laud  
striking  
evaporate     v. （使）蒸发，挥发；消失，消散
skeptical  
melody        n. 主旋律，曲调；歌，曲子；婉转，悦耳
dedicate      v. 致力于，献身于；把（书、戏剧、音乐作品等）献给；为（建筑物或教堂）举行奉献（或落成）典礼；题献词
assert        vt. 维护，坚持；断言；主张；声称
```

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

(`ambient` music) 
- Welcome everybody to this second of two events around the visit of this year's Una's Lecturer, Ben Ratliff. I'm Tim Hampton, the director of the Townsend Humanities Center. And I'm really happy that everyone could show up for today's event. Just to say a few words about Ben's work. It seems to me that one of the most striking changes that has come to pass over our collective cultural life in the past two decades is a transformation in the role of the critic. With the rise of new technologies that have both altered the way we read and the way we experience our `sonic` landscape, the traditional function of the art, theater or music critic has shifted. The conventional function of the New York Times or San Francisco Chronicle reviewer, who makes judgments about the quality of this or that aesthetic artifact has given way to a much more challenging and important role as a kind of guide for the perplexed, an informed and thoughtful voice that can help listeners and readers make sense of the increasingly complicated landscape in which we live. Or, to put it slightly differently, the critic as tastemaker has given way to the critic as mapmaker. As we are confronted with an overload of image and sound, with access to every song ever, the critic takes on the role of interpreter and critical voice, able to describe new trends and repackage old trends. And the repackaging of old trends, with the ability to cut through bullshit and isolate important issues in our cultural moment. And no one has embraced the complexity and difficult of writing about culture in the current moment than our guest today, Una's Lecturer Ben Ratliff. As pop and jazz critic for the New York Times over two decades, and as the author of five books, culminating most recently in the dazzling study Every Song Ever, 20 Ways to Listen in an Age of Musical Plenty, Ratliff has charted with a sure hand and style the explosion of sonic information that now defines our moment. More than anyone, it seems to me, he has grasped the changing role of the critic and the changing nature of music. As boundaries between note and noise evaporate, as live performance is haunted by digitization and vice versa. Whether he is writing about the textures of John Coltrane's late style in his remarkable book On The Sound of Coltrane, or studying the ability of a DJ scratch to create density in a recording, or zeroing in on a single strummed chord by country singer Merle Haggard, Ratliff has mapped out the emotional and even physical stakes of the waves of vibration that shape our soundscape. So please join me in welcoming Ben Ratliff. 

(audience applauding) - Thank you. I'm gonna begin by playing you a song. (`Flamenco` song playing) 

That is Siempre Estoy Yolando, the song I have most recently discovered, which `involuntarily` suggests for me the word we are about to discuss. The singer is La Nina de la Puebla, whose background has been described by Flamenco historians as non-gypsy. And the guitarist was Sabicas. And this recording was made in the early 1930s in `Sevilla`. Nina de la Puebla was blind and a traveling star by her mid twenties, that's her. She admired the `unremitting` `intensity` of cante jondo style Flamenco singing. But her voice wasn't quite suited to it, instead it was thin and fine and capable of `flickering` `microtonal` precision. She allows you to register all the `articulation` as it is happening, and that is a quality is suppose I associate with `virtuosity`. This is a recording in which her voice is on display, but it's also moving through a relationship with the guitar. And they are saying ole to each other and to the atmosphere they are creating together. Much later, in the early 80s, Sabicas was asked whether a non-Spaniard can hope to play Flamenco well. He had a very all-or-nothing Flamenco answer. "Of course," he said, "but Flamenco is 100% atmosphere, "and if you are alone without the atmosphere, "you won't get anywhere. "You must mix every day with people "who sing, dance or play. "And if you don't do that, "you'll have a lot of technique, "but you won't know how to use it." Technique is an interpretive translation of what Sabicas really said. He really said muchos dedos, a lot of fingers. When I hear Nina de los Peines, who was gitana, and much more widely thought-of as the greatest female singer of Flamenco, I hear more of everything. More emotional engagement, and her voice is bigger, and broader, and often on the verge of a shout, or in one. Like this.

(Flamenco song playing) 

Her art is beyond my understanding. I wonder why, with Nina de los Peines, who we just heard, I love the sound and the voice, I will listen to it forever, but the V word never comes to mind as a marker. It's transforming to see a musician be great within the range of what great means to you. And it's moving to see a musician even try to be great. I don't have anything against muchos dedos, techno, or techno-spiritual excellence in music. I have learned how to respond, I think ole, and then I move quickly past the event or the achievement in search of what I think of as the real door within their sound, which when opened will tell me who they are and what they're trying to do. But I have questions about some ideas connected to the word `virtuosity`, and I would like to take this time to ask them. I sense that this movable and slippery word has grown more so through the reception of music, particularly music in the European classical tradition, rather than through the doing of it. In other words, as a value, I think virtuosity is more a beholder's value. And so I'm gonna interrupt this talk with words from other beholders, musicians and writers and friends to whom I all posed the same question: when you think about virtuosity, what or whom do you think of? And at the end of these quotes from other people, I will point back to myself, like this, so you know it's me again. Teju Cole, a writer in New York City. "When I watch masterclasses, what strikes me "is that the master in question takes the matter "of technical ability for granted. "Of course you can hit all the notes, "else why would you even be in a masterclass. "And more often than not, what the master then teaches "is where to place the accents, "how to vary within repetitions, "how to create little narratives. "True virtuosity lies in an accumulation "of those little touches. "And of course the `superlative` virtuosos "are all interpretation, and they drop lots of notes "along the way. "I think of Horowitz, Rubinstein, even Richter. "But perhaps few artists have shown "how far interpretation can surpass technique "as well as Thelonious Monk has." When you are really young, a song does something practical, it has a function. It keeps you company when you sing it to yourself, or it marks off a countdown, or it narrates a game. Or it accompanies the characters and visual effects in a movie, or it's something sung at gatherings, like hymns or anthems. Or it's what you play on an instrument, for reasons that may be obscure to you, every Thursday at 4:30, with a teacher, sitting on gray metal folding chairs in a basement classroom. And then one day you hear something special, usually a recording, and you feel an integrated response in parts of your body that you do not have names for. And you cannot believe that someone made music as fluid and purposeful as that, in which fast melodic steps, or changes of atmosphere through tone, come down like law. These musicians are not only better than you, but so much better than they need to be, and they're bringing back evidence from an atmosphere you do not have access to. And sometimes they're doing it nonchalantly, or seeming as if an outside force is guiding them. They can do this from their learned instincts of technique and show business, but at best it probably comes from their knowledge that virtuosity is a means to an end. There is something beyond `virtuosity`, and that is the part that you don't, or are unwilling to, understand. To some extent the listener recognizing all this has to be naive, at least for a moment. To respond to music at that high level, whether or however you evaluate it, is to take part in a kind of fantasy. But does that mean a fantasy in which everyone in the world is musically virtuosic? Or does it mean a fantasy in which there is no such thing as virtuosity, because there is no such thing as a musician? Because a musician is a just another breather, and all of our movements, all of our thoughts, all of our speech, comes out in this fantasy as graceful and purposeful art. 

Anyway, the first virtuosic performance we really notice might be the most satisfying one we ever hear in our lives. It might be Vision of Love by Mariah Carey, or Come On by Jimi Hendrix, or Aaron Rosand playing Saint-Saens's Third Violin Concerto, or John Coltrane playing Giant Steps, or Andre 3000 rapping in Outkast's Return of the G. And often around that time, when listeners have that experience, their parents cease to be as interesting to them as they once were. 

("I Had A Vision of Love" by Mariah Carey) 
("Come On" by Jimi Hendrix) 
(Saint-Saens's Third Violin Concerto by Aaron Rosand) 
("Giant Steps" by John Coltrane) 
("Return of the G" by Outkast) 

Kwame Coleman, a jazz pianist and musicologist, and professor in New York: "I've come to understand virtuosity as a musician "exercising a certain virtue in how they work out "and execute their music. "The most obvious example is John Coltrane's reputation "for his disciplined, compulsive and `prodigious` "practice habits, a dedication to self-mastery "in the service of creating a music poetry, "with deeply spiritual undertones." Leron Thomas, a jazz and other things trumpet player in New York City: "To call Coltrane a virtuoso would be to reduce him." "Virtuosity is about shifting borders," Dana Gooley has written in his great book, The Virtuoso Liszt. "The musician, the athlete and the magician "are potentially virtuosos as soon as they cross a limit, "the limit of what seems possible "or what the spectator can imagine. "Once this act of transgression is complete, "the border shifts, and the boundaries of the possible "are redrawn. "If the performer does not cross a newer, "more challenging one, "he will no longer be perceived as a virtuoso." That's Dana Gooley. But at a certain point, the listener can grow up and decide that many virtuosos are alike. Or to be more precise, it's not the musicians themselves who are alike, it's the borders that they represent. Because, to a certain way of thinking, Franz Liszt, playing an unaccompanied recital in 1840, that's a `caricature` of him made at the time, was Jerry Lee Lewis in front of a pick-up band in 1964, who was James P. Johnson playing solo piano at a basement casino in Harlem in 1913. Liszt and Lewis both had long, romanticist hair. Liszt and Johnson both deployed powerful rituals of stagecraft. Just before sitting down to play, Liszt threw his gloves and handkerchief on the floor. Johnson shook a silk handkerchief and dusted off the piano stool with it. All three played piano in a way sometimes called orchestral, with double glissandi and almost frightening dynamic shifts, and projected a kind of domination over their instruments. Johnson said that he used to perform Liszt's Rigoletto Concert Paraphrase as an introduction to a stomp. Hans Christian Anderson, having seen Liszt perform in Weimar, wrote this about him: "He seemed to me a demon who was nailed fast "to the instrument whence the tones streamed forth." Jerry Lee Lewis told his first record producer that he thought the `devil` was inside him. All of them pumped their forearms at the piano, as opposed to keeping their hands low by the keys. It has been suggested that Liszt raised up off the bench while playing his famously fast `encore` piece, Galop Chromatique. Jerry Lee Lewis ritually did the same thing, and kicked his stool away. His stool is out of the picture, but I have seen a larger version of this picture in which you see the stool and it's upside-down. Also, do you notice, this is the moment he is really turning it on, but his face is just like a mask of calm. I doubt that Jerry Lee Lewis is a virtuoso in terms of harmonic fluency or range of expression, he's no James P. Johnson. But he is fluid and purposeful, and in control of his own musical language. And to see him play his music is to feel implicated by it. And so what makes them all remarkable turns out to be what makes them similar. Until you see, let's say, Prince. Because Prince redrew the boundaries of the possible. I remember seeing him in Madison Square Garden about 20 years ago, and being under the impression that he could control the lights with cueing motions from his hands. He probably was doing that, and if that were all he were doing, I might not have been quite so impressed. But he was also playing a highly `articulated` guitar solo, and I think spinning in place. More than that, he merged with his actions. He was the guitar, he was the spin, and he was the lights. So here is another aspect of virtuosity, perhaps, doing and being more than one thing very well at once. Parul Sehgal, a literary critic in Brooklyn: "Virtuosity for me implies a kind of abundance, "a kind of mastery so great that the activity becomes play." James P. Johnson used to play a piece called Imitator's Rag, whose final strain had Dixie in the right hand and the Star Spangled Banner in the left. And so on. This kind of virtuosity is not necessarily about returns but about generosity, the musician adds an extra level to their work just to do it, just for the feeling, or to specify the exact crossing of discipline and love. And this is the right time to say that parents are often the first virtuosos in your life. They pick you up with a left arm, they feed you with right, and walk with you, sometimes while talking to someone else. They are Prince, they know they can do this any day of the week. You're in awe of this for some years, and then someone with a guitar or microphone surpasses them, as far as you're concerned, and the border has shifted. The V word appeared in my inbox as I was writing this in a message sent by a music publicist. "I hope you're doing well," it reads, "I'm checking in about the virtuosic saxophonist "slash composer slash arranger X's sophomore release." Reading sentences like this has been part of my everyday life for about 25 years. Sophomore release is the perfumed data of music biz talk, and virtuosic is, or purports to be, the language of a rare aestheticism. The publicist may or may not know that the rise of the word in the first half of the 19th century, the time of Liszt and Paganini and Schumann was coterminous with the rise of the popular music critic, a person like me. And the rise of the touring superstar solo recitalist. But that doesn't matter. The publicist knows that V is a word with muscles. The publicist is strutting just a bit, and so a music critic's response to V, in whatever direction, is Pavlovian, or at least irrational. Attraction or repulsion. I'll be into it, or I'll be skeptical around. Most likely I'll be skeptical around it. Because V, to me, in and of itself, without the instinct that comes before it, or the grace that comes after it, means shutting down doubt. It's the projection of a system of power that I don't wanna be part of, and it is my job to question. Geeta Dayal, a writer and music critic in Los Angeles: "To me the word virtuosity is biased toward melody. "Whether you think of a virtuoso pianist, "or a particularly ripping guitar solo. "And while there are certainly drummers "who are considered virtuosos, "the concept of virtuosity is biased against "rhythm and timbre. "The big innovation in the 21st century for me "is timbre, the invention of new timbres and textures. "Timbre is threatening to the establishment in some way, "because it's not easily quantifiable, "nor is it easily notated." I admit that I noticed the word in the email. It means something to me that someone will go on the record calling a musician a virtuoso. But beyond that I have no more interest in musician X, whose work I don't think I knew, than I did before. I may have less interest. From my perspective, here's what the situation looks like. The publicist in general is paid to consider using the word as a term of praise, to consider using the word as a term of praise. The critic in general is paid to consider using the word as a term of disapproval. And the musician is esteemed, if not necessarily paid, for being disinterested in the concept, for wanting to get free of it, or for not wanting to show it too much. The three of us are not thinking about this word with a shared frame of reference. Mikhail Baryshnikov, who has often been called a virtuoso, has said: "One part of me is dancing, "and the other observing from the side. "This control protects you from an overdone, "vulgar presentation. "You constantly keep yourself under fire, as it were. "You watch with an ironic eye, as if saying, "well well, so you can do it, "but don't show it too much." In other words, perhaps some kinds of virtuosity wouldn't have much power if they weren't right on the edge of being vulgar or thoughtless or rough. Hank Shteamer, a music critic and editor in Brooklyn: "I often think that Igor, "my Russian barber in the East Vilage, "in terms of virtuosity. "I'm not sure I've seen anyone so casually, "almost brutally efficient with their movements "and reflexes as this guy." Unless of course the opposite is true, virtuosity is right on the edge of something so fine, it seems outside of human will. Zachary Wolf, a music critic in New York: "When I think about virtuosity, "I think about this." 

(woman singing classical music) 

"About lightness, about freedom, "but a freedom that follows the rules. "Virtuosity is law-abiding." V is too easily used as a cudgel, or a boast or a threat or an insult or a form of ogling. It puts its thumb on the scale. There's something about the conversation-stopping charge around the word which implies that it is the last refinement, and most sensible people agree that it is not. If it means anything, as I've already suggested, it's a means to an end, of course. What is the end? Some kind of absolute freedom, or the discovery of a power in music that goes beyond notes and musicians and audiences. It's been described in different ways. Murray Perahia gives the same advice to younger pianists that Vladimir Horowitz gave to him. "To become more than a virtuoso, "first you have to become a virtuoso." The violist Kim Kashkashian, who can hit all the notes, talks about a written score as a house which may be perfectly sound, but needs a conscience to live inside it. The extent to which you respect it and also fill it with yourself is something like your virtuosity. That's a paraphrase, she said that yesterday. I didn't write it down. In musicians, virtuosity usually implies great charismatic fluency and dexterity, sometimes great memory and problem-solving skill. Perhaps near the limits of human ability. Virtuosity is virtuous when it is understood as disciplined and rare. It's corrupt when understood as `ingratiating` or a matter of covering over a lack of profound thought. Certainly, the word doesn't imply anything about artistic taste, whatever that is. Jason Moran, jazz pianist in New York City: "Generally I think about Thelonious Monk "when I think about virtuosity. "In that people said he was not virtuosic. "And by people I mean idiot assholes that don't know shit. "Monk defines it for me because he does what he needs "to make the phrase shine bright. "He puts peroxide on the wound. "From the arpeggio down the entire piano "landing with a low boom, "like a stuntman knowing how to fall." In a funny way, the idea of virtuosity in any arena implies tradition and singularity at the same time. Virtuosity, the word and idea, is perhaps best understood not as a neutral certificate, or an objective virtue, but as a set of specific historical practices and values. Whether in say, Europe or India or North America, involving teachers and gurus, performance expectations, systems of media, specific strata of class, race, culture, age, and specific marketplaces. It tells you everything about the culture of the music, and nothing about the music itself. Dan Weiss, a drummer in New York: "I think of someone playing an instrument "or singing like they're playing with a toy. "Just joy and zero effort. "Contemporary players? "One that comes to mind is Peter Evans. "Just completely sick and `devoid` of technical restraints. "He's playing the instrument as if it doesn't exist. "Big compliment. "Maybe that's what I'm getting at. "The music becomes more transparent, "and instruments or voices become transcendent "and invisible. "The music is all present, everything else disappears." I can't shake the thought, this is me talking, I can't shake the thought that one can be not at all good at one's instrument in any traditional way, or simply not wanna bother with appearing to be good, and still be virtuosic. Rather, what that virtuoso might possess is confidence, grace, a knowledge of their own musical language, and an ambition that just slightly outpaces their physical ability. They might be asserting dominance over their instrument, but they're still chasing something, mostly themselves. I saw Arto Lindsey do this about a month ago. He sang, lightly, and played electric guitar using only `rhythm and timbre`, without forming a single known chord, or playing a melody. And he did this while interacting with a Brazilian percussionist of more traditional skills. He had set up speakers and amplifiers on the floor throughout the room, so that a single rhythmic strike could ricochet in various patterns throughout the audience. It was somewhat confrontational. At the end of it he said something I will never forget. He said, "thank you, I hope we raised some doubt." And for me, the word works best in writing when its meaning and function can be restricted, or laboriously defended, so that nobody takes its power for granted. Or put in a strange context. Or made to modify an intangible or negative thought. I've found that the word works beautifully when I'm praising musicians for non-virtuosity. Ralph Ellison described his fictional character Reinhardt in Invisible Man as an American virtuoso of identity. That's good. Kit Lambert, who was one of the early managers of The Who, once called Eric Clapton a virtuoso of tedium. That's really good too. And a German music critic in 1844, quoted in Žarko Cvejić's The Virtuoso as Subject, tellingly praised Franz Liszt as "more than a mere virtuoso." Iggy Pop, rockstar, Miami Florida: "The first words that come to mind are boring, "clueless, noodler. "These words are in response to an imaginary musician, "one we've all heard before, "who has done a lot of practice, "but not a lot of thinking, or feeling or living. "However, I suspect that in the classical tradition "in which the true virtuoso interprets "the composer's work, "physical skills at his or her disposal "may indeed free him or her to approach "a great performance, which nevertheless "must come from within. "And also it must come with awareness "of the most vulgar circumstances." I think what Iggy is talking about is that some virtuosos seem to have a fixed outcome in mind. Perhaps that means drawing a border. It might be at a very high level. But it is fixed. And then there is Sarah Vaughan singing Lullaby of Birdland. The typical and limited ways one might evaluate other great singers, that they operate best within certain particular ranges, or that they're in charge of certain particular effects, seem not really to apply well to her. To me, every single sound she makes is equally purposeful, strong, stylish, disciplined, articulated. What she's doing suggests achievement, and usually an achievement is measured by an evaluation, but she makes you think about what she's doing in a way that must be categorically different from evaluation, because she's conjuring levels of achievement that never would've occurred to you. That is more than mere. There should be a word for that. Arto Lindsey, musician, Rio de Janeiro: "If I consider it as it's usually conceived, "I think about controlling many aspects of performance "at the same time. "I think about technique close to an edge "where it will lose control of itself, "where technique is honed past being an issue. "Virtue gives way to grace. "Or, I can think about establishing a virtuosity "of indeterminate skills, "scales of diminishing self-control. "Places we can go when we're absent from ourselves. "Or, just admit that when I think about virtuosity, "I think about getting over it, getting past it." And now, I am getting past virtuosity. Thank you. (audience applauding) (rhythmic music) 