WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en AMY KASS: Hello, I'm Amy Kass and it's my pleasure to welcome you to a conversation about Veterans Day, the meaning of Veterans Day, one of a series of conversations about American Holidays, all based on selections in a new `anthology` entitled What So Proudly We Hail: The American Soul in Story, Speech and Song. Since Veterans Day... is rather complicated, I thought we would by having a little... discussion of what the history of that was, the history of Veterans Day, as well as... what it currently means. And then we'll dive into a discussion of one of the selections which I will introduce then. Okay? LEON KASS: Veterans Day... in its original incarnation was known as Armistice Day... it was instituted to celebrate the ceasefire which took place at the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month, 1918. A ceasefire between the allies and Germany that was the end of the fighting of the Great War, the First World War, the war thought to be the war to end all wars. A year later president Woodrow Wilson proclaimed the first Armistice Day to honor the services of the troops, but also to celebrate the opportunity that victory provided for the United States to play its proper role in securing peace and justice in the international community of nations. Congress eventually, actually ironically, on the eve of... almost on the eve of the Second World War, in 1938, proclaimed, by an act of Congress, proclaimed Armistice Day to be a national legal holiday. But, after the Second World War, and after the Korean War, the so-called "Good Wars," with some encouragement by veterans groups, Congress altered the law to rename the holiday Veterans Day in honor of the veterans of all of America's wars, to celebrate their patriotism, their service to their country and to the common good. So it has remained since. (4:27) ELIOT A. COHEN: A couple thoughts about Veterans Day. First is, this strikes me as the only American civic holiday which is connected with Europe. We're not the only ones who celebrate that day. In fact, if you see soldiers from Great Britain, or Australia, or Canada, you'll see that they're wearing red poppies, which is very common in Great Britain and Commonwealth states, so there's a European connection which didnít exist before. And the original meaning is, obviously, tied to the First World War. The other thing which I think is worth thinking about: World War I and World War II, Korea, were all wars fought by conscripts. Veterans Day only comes in celebrating wars which were entirely fought by conscripts, which was not true of previous wars. Most of the Union Army were volunteers--not all of them. And going back, these were wars that had been fought by volunteers, so in... I think in its original meaning, a lot of what Veterans Day was about was not a tiny minority of volunteers... it was about a great mass of conscripts who'd been called up, did their duty, and came back. LEON KASS: Itís true that those wars were wars fought largely by conscripts and it was a citizen rather than a professional volunteer army, but that might mean that it's even more important for us today to honor Veterans Day precisely because the larger population has much less contact with the people who serve. In other words, we have a duty to honor which we are likely to forget, whereas the people who have fought don't forget. ELIOT A. COHEN: Well, I think it's important to think about it for sure... I think it's very important to keep clearing our minds of the distinction between the citizen-soldier and the professional. And I think the motivations are different, I think the nature of the sacrifice is different, and I don't think we should... I don't think we should blur those over. The other thing is, it's true it's a minority-- it's not that tiny a minority. We've now had probably well over a million Americans serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. That's a tiny minority of the overall population of the United States, but it's a lot. In some parts of the country it's a small minority; the parts that we live in, or that I was born in, it's probably a tiny minority. I think you go to other parts of the country, you find much more in the way of connections with people who one way or another have served. And I also... at this juncture in our history, I don't think people are inclined to forget, in fact one of the things that's quite extraordinary from just looking at the story, is the extent to which we really do honor veterans an enormous amount. Veterans of the Iraq and Afghan wars have gotten treated remarkably well by the American public. RAPHAEL COHEN: I would say that the meaning of what it means to be a veteran on Veterans Day has changed dramatically. And one of it is the sort of point you brought up with the move from a draftee military to a professional military. There's two other points here that I think tend to get overlooked. Particularly with the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, you have many more civilians running around doing combat-like duties. I mean I'm an intelligence officer by trade; the amount of interaction I had with people not wearing uniforms, in combat, you know, living on the other side of my compound... is really pretty remarkable, and the same is true for you know, the State Department reps who are running around doing development missions and so on. And then moreover, I was teaching to my undergrads this past week World War I, you know which is actually very apropos. And to try and get them to place it in context, you think about what day one of the Battle of Somme was like. So 60,000 British casualties, day 1, July 1, 1916, 20,000 of those, or actually a little less, were killed in action. That's about three times the number of casualties we've suffered in Iraq and Afghanistan for the entire ten years. It's a level of carnage that you know, as much as I like to beat my chest, "you know, I'm a veteran," in some ways it's an order of magnitude different than what I've experienced in war, and I think most veterans today experience. AMY KASS: Let's draw a circle around this conversation for a moment, and we'll return to it at the end. Okay? It's a very nice way to move into the speech that we want to discuss. It's a speech by Lt. General John F. Kelly of the United States Marine Corps. It was given on Veterans Day a year ago to the Semper Fi Society in St. Louis. And he has lots of things to tell us about what it means to be a veteran, what it means to fight, what's the difference between the few and the many, so perhaps we could start by just summarizing the speech. Eliot, if you would do that, that would be very helpful. ELIOT A. COHEN: Sure... Well I should say just one or two things by way of introduction, it's that I know General Kelly, he's quite a wonderful leader. The second thing I have to say is that he gives this speech four days after his own son, who was a Marine, is killed in combat. The speech is given to the Semper Fi Society, I'm not quite sure what the Semper Fi Society is, my guess is it's a Marine Veterans Association AMY KASS: It's a society that is meant to support Marines and their families. ELIOT A. COHEN: Right, so my guess is this is probably a combination of Marine veterans and families of Marines, but it's within the Marine family. I think that's quite important. And what he does is he goes, he talks about 9/11, and he describes sort of the, describes the general reaction to 9/11 of shock and horror, and then he talks about people hugging their children and people crying and then he says there was however a small segment of America that made very different choices that day. So he's drawing a very large distinction between the great mass of the American people and a smaller group, and that smaller group he says first firefighters and police, but then it's the armed forces and above all the Marines. And really most of the speech is about the Marines. And there are repeatedly these invidious distinctions I would say, drawn between people who serve and people who don't. The people who serve you can never thank enough. There's a kind of dismissive remark that people with plastic flags in the windows of their cars, and it concludes with a very powerful description of two Marines who win the Navy Cross, a very high decoration for heroism who opened fire at this... it was an incident in IraqÖopened fire on a truck bomb coming into a compound, and they themselves are killed in the blast, but they, in the sort of five seconds they had to react, they killed the driver, so that it didn't get all of the way into the compound. And he describes in a rather chilling way, looking at the footage of some security cameras which captured that ñ So he kind of imagines what it's like to live the last five seconds of their lives. As you can probably guess, and I say this with a great deal of diffidence, I have an enormous respect for him and... obviously not having lost a son, but having thought about losing a son. It's a speech that troubles me, and I don't... I have to say that I don't entirely mean that in the positive sense of being troubled. RAPHAEL COHEN: It's given by a Marine general officer to the Semper Fi Society. So I think the correct way of interpreting the speech is not, you know, you shouldn't picture this as some grand statement on civil-military relations between the military and the rest, and you shouldn't interpret this as some sort of grand sociological study of why men fight. I think this is more... it's insightful into the way the Marines want to see themselves, and how this sort of small subset of Americans, you know, wants to cast their own image if nothing else. And in that sense I think it's quite useful. Whether or not theÖ AMY KASS: Let me see if I understand you correctly, you want to say it's that small subset, the Marines, the way that Marines see themselves. RAPHAEL COHEN: Marines see themselves. AMY KASS: And you would distinguish that from the way people in the Army see themselves. RAPHAEL COHEN: Yes. AMY KASS: Or peopleÖin the Navy see themselves? RAPHAEL COHEN: Well I'm saying that I think the Marines are a small `insular`, itís the core of the corps of the corps. I mean they believe it's an extraordinarily strong brand image, it's a much stronger brand image than the Army. I mean you can be part of the intelligence corps, you can be part of the light infantry community, you can be part of the heavy army, you can be part of a special operations unit community--each of those have various tribes. Marines and Marine behavior is ìYouíre first and foremost a Marine.î And this is a very strong--and I think you see this still, a very strong branding image come out of the speech-- and I think there's still interjects how he's casting how Marines want to view themselves. LEON KASS: Let's grant that this is an attempt to boost the spirits in fact of the Marines and their families and to encourage them to think the best of the work and the sacrifice. Donít you think that there is some truth in the kind of distinction that's being drawn between the people who are warriors and who fight, and the rest of us who not only don't, but have no idea what it's like and many of us, I know you and I know a few more people, I didn't know a soul who was in Vietnam. RAPHAEL COHEN: No, I think that's true, I just don't think the distinction is nearly as... clear cut as it comes out in the speech. It's not between Marines and civilians. It's not between... necessarily, military and civilians. I think there's a distinction between people who serve overseas--and I include in that, you know, my friends over down the street in Virginia, or in Foggy Bottom, who also were there... who also risked their neck... who also did you know, were also as much of a veteran as I am-- and people who, you know, spend... ELIOT A. COHEN: If I could `pitch in`, I also think it's much less relevant than I think both of you think, for a number of reasons. It is, and again, I have admiration for him and a great deal of sympathy for him. There are a number of things, let me tell you some things that are troubling about it. In all that description of 9/11, and the description of heroic reactions, and this ties in to what Rafi said about the state department people. One group of people are not mentioned; the civilians in flight 93 who stormed the cockpit--they're not mentioned. And they were every bit as heroic as any of those firefighters, or any of those cops, or any of the Marines, or any of the soldiers, or any of the diplomats. And I think there's something very worrisome if we think that courage is a quality that's reserved for certainly one segment of the military, or the military overall. I would also say--and I understand this is an inspirational speech in certain settings, I'm not really going to blame them for it-- but when you talk about the sons and daughters who serve are men and women of character, some are, some aren't. I've heard a Marine four star say, "You know who we like to recruit? Gang members." And he was partly speaking for effect. But the truth is the American military is a mirror of our society. And one of the dangers of being as separate from the military as you just indicated you are is you forget you get some truly noble characters and you get some dirtballs. And you get some people who are intensely admirable and some people who are not admirable. And you forget another thing, which is that incredibly powerful description at the end-- that's not what most soldiers do. Most soldiers are, you know, fixing tanks, or building roads, or you know, working at a desk. They're number actually engaged in actual combat turns out to be pretty limited. And I think in a certain way, when you actually... what one ends up undervaluing--are the qualities of persistence and putting up with stuff, and putting up with stuff, and pressing on through not very exciting seven day weeks, and 16 hour days, which Rafi did for over two years. And doing your duty... that's accurate- to my mind that's the meaning of Veterans Day, and those are the attributes you celebrate. AMY KASS: Wait a second, are you suggesting then, that the reason to celebrate Veterans Day is to celebrate this boring life that so many people are willing to volunteer to commit themselves to? RAPHAEL COHEN: In part, it, but it I think this goes back to the distinction between Memorial Day and Veterans Day. Memorial Day is about, you know, the Lance `Corporals` who give the ultimate sacrifice while guarding the gates of the F.O.B. from a suicide bomber--that's Memorial Day. Veterans Day is the equally heroic--well not equally heroicóthe equally important, it's not necessarily as heroic... sacrifice, which is the less glorious part. It's the drudgery of warfare. AMY KASS: But the drudgery of warfare is not something that most of the population-- however much it's a drudgery, and even if it's only a small part of combat that you see, and the rest of it is doing very menial jobs or boring jobs-- there's less than one percent of the population that volunteers, and doesn't that- RAPHAEL COHEN: But that's the point... this is why you have Veterans Day, right? The fact that the drudgery is distinct. ELIOT A. COHEN: There's an excerpt which I wish you would've included in this to look at, and that's Lincolnís meditation on the draft. Late in the Civil War, the Union's running out of army, running out of soldiers, and it has to contemplate a draft, which they really didn't want to do. And Lincoln writes this letter... which is... was typical of Lincoln, he's sort of working out his arguments, and he talks about the reasons soldiers, why do people volunteer to serve? He says patriotism, desire for adventure, lack of employment, curiosity. And Lincoln, with his enormous human wisdom understands that there's a range of motivations for why people enlist, and I think one of the... and this is one of the sad consequences of moving away from conscription... is we make it very easy to sentimentalize soldiers. LEON KASS: This isn't a question of sentimentalizing, it's a question of recognizing the difference between that kind of service and being a doctor, a teacher, a nurse, a social worke at home. Put it this way, whatever the deepest motives are, there's a difference between a people who run from danger, and the people that walk toward danger, and you can say that about the firefighters and the policemen. There are good apples and bad apples amongst them, and nevertheless, when duty calls, most of them do what they're supposed to do... Wait wait wait let me finishÖAnd... yes and in the Army or the Navy or the Marines, take that raw material with its mixed motives, and they shape them up. I mean they form them--it's not clear whether Yale and Haerter were by nature superior men, or had something which their subsequent training enabled them to do, that none of the rest of us could do, or very few of us could do-- but... the people who enter the service enter with the intent not to sit behind a desk but to be part of the fighting force. And... there's also this very big difference. RAPHAEL COHEN: I mean, the point is, most infantrymen will go through years in Iraq or in Afghanistan without having fired their weapon. It's certainly true of Iraq, it may not be true of Afghanistan... but the point is, if you're saying what separates State Department folk from soldiers is the simple fact that soldiers are asked to kill people and State Department aren't- most soldiers don't do that. And most soldiers... moreover, aren't infantrymen. They aren't supposed to be doing that. They can do that in a pinch, but that's not what they mostly do. AMY KASS: I will admit that I am sentimental about veterans, about the people who volunteer to serve our country, and who actually go and put their life on the line. But, holding that aside, and holding aside also the motives for which people go...I think that's probably interesting but I don't think it's particularly relevant. They go. I want to ask you this question, pointedly. You were an undergraduate at Harvard. Would you say that you're different from the rest of the people that you went to school with, or not? Very few of your fellow classmen, of your colleagues, went into the Army, went into service. There was no ROTC, that's probably part of the reason, but not the entire reason. So the question is, is there really a difference between those who volunteered to go into the Army and those who don't, regardless of the work that they do? RAPHAEL COHEN: Sure there is. Other than that way I'll say... and how would I characterize this? I mean look, here's where I step back from saying that everyone's the same. I think there is a difference from people who make a conscious effort to serve and people who decide to spend, as many of my classmates did, you know, went on to Wall Street and lived a very nice life in downtown Manhattan. Is there much of a difference between... my choice to serve and then, you know, some of my compatriots who ended up in the CIA, or ended up in the State Department, or ended up in some of the aid communities, going to equally nasty parts of the world? You know, equally public-spirited, equally accepting of danger? I mean, goodness knows I think I was probably safer in Baghdad than, you know, had I been assigned to the Consulate in Peshawar. AMY KASS: Would you agree with that? ELIOT A. COHEN: When you go into the military--and this is why I bring up flight 93, or why I bring up some of the State Department people that I knew who exposed themselves to terrific danger and kind of quietly went back in-- and it's actually harder if you're not carrying a weapon, it's not easier because you can't shoot back. You're not allowed to shoot back, actually. You're not allowed to carry a weapon. The military is terrific at conditioning people, and at developing courage. I didn't have Rafi's experience--I was in the Reserves-- but I just remember all the different things, whether it's repelling, or all the stuff that they do that kind of conditions you to be brave. Jumping out of airplanes-- Rafi had to jump out of an airplane a number of times-- the reason for that is not because he's going to be jumping out of an airplane in all likelihood for any combat reason, it's to develop courage. The military is great at that. The military is great to conditioning you to the different drills that you need to do so that you don't have to think a lot about it in the really difficult situations that your autonomous system kind of takes over, and you behave. I find myself... not on Veterans Day, and I very much believe that Veterans Day should be commemorated and should honor service, understanding that it is service. But the idea that there's a small minority of brave patriotic people and that the rest of us are somehow inferior, I utterly reject; and the evidence is that United 93, a randomly selected bunch of citizens, who had no preparation, and who end up storming that cockpit. LEON KASS: No one is saying that courage is the province only of the military. We're talking about the culture as a whole and at large, and... there's a big difference between finding it in yourself as a civilian to rush into a burning building--which happens in your path, to rescue somebody who's calling out, and we admire those kinds of `sporadic` acts of courage and self sacrifice-- from an occupation, a calling, a way of life in which that it's essence, that's what it's defined to be. And the point again is, look, there are people who go to dangerous places and people who go to dangerous places and subject themselves to danger. There are American businessmen who go to parts of the world where they're unwelcome. But it's a difference in kind if you are going charged by your fellow countrymen, your government; to engage in the activity to protect us, protect our way of life; to kill our enemies, the people who are trying to destroy it. That's a very different vocation. ELIOT A. COHEN: Well, like I said, I'm partly colored by two years in the State Department, seeing some very brave diplomats go back and back again to be targets. But, look: first, you cannot read this speech as anything other than saying that there are two kinds of people out here; to use a phrase that is now current, there's a 1% and a 99%, and the implicit argument here is that the 1% is by nature morally superior to the other 99%, and I reject that. LEON KASS: Let me ask a slightly different question. This is another question about the relation between those who serve in the military and those who don't. But the question is: do we really honor them if we don't in fact honor the cause for which they're fighting? ELIOT A. COHEN: yes, because sometimes the cause would be one for which people disagree. You can honor a soldier--and I think this is one of the good things in the country--we have honored service without...people have honored soldiers while `deploring`, say, the war in Iraq. LEON KASS: It seems to me, Eliot, although it's a volunteer army, we and our representatives have given them their mission and sent them where they are. They're not simply flying on their own. And, you can dissent in a way from the war--and people have dissented from lots of wars--but it seems to me it's patronizing and even to some degree, it's a form of dishonor not to try to see the service through the eyes of the people who serve. And while perhaps reserving judgment about the war, not thinking, not imagining yourself as honoring them properly when you say 'we support the troops; bring them home,' or 'we're for the troops...' that's a way of making ourselves feel good. ELIOT A. COHEN: I think it would be very dangerous, and by the way, I was someone who was in favor of the Iraq war, and in the Bush administration I had some responsibility for helping to conduct it, and I had a son who went off and served in two combat tours. I would be horrified if people felt inhibited from opposing that war because it was cast as in some ways disloyal to the troops. So I wouldn't even accept your term 'reserving judgment.' I think full-throated opposition is fine--and none of that prohibits you from honoring service, and I think you should honor the service of veterans. But that should have nothing to do with what position you take on any conflict, because these are professionals, we will be sending them to fight ambiguous wars for ambiguous causes. This is not the Civil War. This is not World War II. Those are not the kinds of wars that we're going to fight. And there has to be civic space for people to disagree, and disagree very forcefully about that, while saying that it's completely apart from our regard for the people who actually go out and do it. LEON KASS: I'm not making an argument...against people who oppose the war, or who express those opinions loudly. There's a certain way of patronizing the soldiers, really patronizing the soldiers, if you treat them as if they are other than they are--namely as people who thoughtlessly went out and did the bidding of people who bore no risks themselves. And it seems to me you have to at least understand that...they've chosen this knowing what the risks are, and one has to honor not only that they served, but honor their understanding of what they were doing when they served. ELIOT A. COHEN: I've spent my whole life among soldiers. I think different soldiers, airmen, and Marines understand their service very differently. They are individuals. I agree with you, and it always sets my teeth on edge, but for a different reason, when people talk about weíve got to bring the troops home. That's the rhetoric of a conscript military, and I can understand that in the context of the Vietnam War, because those kids got drafted, they really didn't get much of a choice (unless they made an honorable choice not to dodge the draft), but they got drafted and sent over there, so bringing the boys home makes sense. When it's a bunch of professionals who have volunteered for this, it makes no sense to talk about weíve got to 'bring the troops home.' The question is this war worth fighting, is it winnable, is it worth sacrificing human beings for? Those are all legitimate questions, but I--and I think this is a pretty profound disagreement--I don't think we suffer from a deficit of honoring veterans, I really don't. RAPHAEL COHEN: Yeah, well, I think you should have Veterans Day--I think that's a nonstarter for a question. But I think you need to interpret it in the correct format. And I think you need to redefine by what we mean by veteran in today's day and age. I would make this about people who served in war zones--and people who served the United States government in war zones. AMY KASS: So the only veterans we should celebrate, or honor, on Veterans Day are those who served in war zones. RAPHAEL COHEN: Well, veteran, you could talk about veteran as someone who served in the military, and veteran as someone who served in combat. I'm actually...I think people who served in combat are actually, from my own personal view, I place people who serve in combat on a different level. I mean it's a different level of sacrifice. I also think this should not be a day about people who died in combat, or who were killed in combat. That's what we have Memorial Day for. And I think to make Memorial Day meaningful--this is the flip side of this--that's where we need to take some special time for those who died in combat. Veterans Day should be thought of not as some sort of grand glorification terms, but it should be understood for what wars are today, what wars have been in the past, and how those both change. And, to appreciate war for what it is--for the small sacrifices, not just the big ones. It's the fact that my soldier can't...missed, you know, how many birthdays of his own kid. Or missed his kid learning to walk or talk. Those are the sacrifices we should be honoring on Veterans Day. It's the small stuff, not necessarily the grand marks of heroism--that's sort of the easy part. LEON KASS: Um, well I'm...moved, Rafi, by the voice of young and recent experience. It seems to me...not the way I would natively regard it. You might persuade me to regard it this way. I go down to the World War II memorial--it's not the greatest memorial, there are things about it I don't like, but at least for the time being, there's something glorious about it. It is an enclosed space, surrounded by the...in a way, the monuments, by states, for some crazy reason, but it's an enclosed space of freedom where right now, at least for a while longer, you encounter veterans from the Second War. And total strangers walk up to them, and they don't just in a perfunctory way thank them for their service. That was clearly a war, it was the war that defined my consciousness. That was a war that made the whole world of difference. Our way of life, the way of life of Europe, the way of life of the whole world was in the balance, and the United States...anybody who fought in that war, I take my hat off to them permanently, no matter what they do with the rest of their life. LEON KASS: There are people who work in government or in surgery and other sorts of things that also miss out on lots of things, maybe not to the same extent. But it does seem to me that one has to continue to esteem the purpose and the unique purpose of the armed forces. This is not simply putting them on a pedestal. We should not only honor Veterans Day in a very special way for the military aspect of this as well as for the personal sacrifices, but also as a kind of question as to how do you honor the service? And not just on this day. And there's this wonderful thing at the end of Saving Private Ryan, where the injunction is "earn this." Earn this. ELIOT A. COHEN: I think that's absolutely...I think that after a bit of give and take, we've come to two very interesting places: One is that I think you've highlighted the question, which is Veterans Day about today's veterans or is it about all the veterans, including the citizen soldiers of the past who are a very different type from today's veterans? And my own view is it should be a more sweeping kind of thing. You think about all the people who in a variety of contexts in different ways ended up serving. But in terms of sort of going forward, what should an average citizen do, and I don't want to go to back to this speech, and it is a speech for Marines...the only thing that's left to do for civilians is to feel rotten. That's all. You're gonna feel rotten cause you're not a Marine. That's not adequate. What is right, I think, is to take that last line from Saving Private Ryan, and having been cognizant of the sacrifices that all these people made...How am I going to lead my life? What does it mean to be a citizen? What does it meant to be a citizen of this country, which is what it is because a lot of people fought for it? I think that's a very positive way of using ... and if celebrating is the right word...of Veterans day, so we agree. LEON KASS: Well, I have to stick up for General Kelly on this point. There's inspiration from this sacrifice, it's not just feel rotten. ELIOT A. COHEN: It's inspiration for Marines. LEON KASS: I am not a Marine. I am not a Marine. There was something absolutely inspiring about this account of these young men. And it doesn't make me feel rotten. It makes me feel that I ought to work harder to deserve the sacrifices they've made. ELIOT A. COHEN: Cause you can't imagine yourself being a Marine at this point, right? LEON KASS: I'm a little creaky for that. ELIOT A. COHEN: So am I. So am I. AMY KASS: Look, I'm far from being a Marine. But I was very moved by that speech too. I was very moved. ELIOT A. COHEN: I didn't say it wasn't a moving speech. It was a very moving speech. AMY KASS: Okay. But, it seems to me that if you really are willing to agree with Leon about what the end of Saving Private Ryan means, that it has something to do with the way you live your life, and the way you live your life--live your life well, because remember what happened there, remember the sacrifices these men made, remember they risked their lives for your safety, for your freedom, for your way of life, and that seems to be precisely what General Kelly is arguing. ELIOT A. COHEN: No, well, we're just going to have to disagree. Iím sorry, read the speech, that's not what's in the speech, it just isn't. AMY KASS: He says, point blank: We owe them something. ELIOT A. COHEN: It's saying we owe them; it's not saying that what you should take away from this is how you should live your life. It isÖ What you owe you can never repay, and you should just know that you can never repay it, and you think that putting a plastic flag in your window is enough, and it's not enough and there's nothing that can ever be enough, and all that leaves you to do is to go home and feel rotten. RAPHAEL COHEN: I think you're reading too much into this. This is a speech by a Marine general officer, to Marines, it's about Marines. I've heard way too many general officers' speeches to come away particularly wrapped around the axle one way or the other. It's quite true. ELIOT A. COHEN: That's a veteran talking! RAPHAEL COHEN: This is a company grade...this somewhat skewed company grade officer talking about senior leadership, but you know look: this means, to its audience, it means something, which is: to the Marines, it is, take inspiration from it. Had it been given to a general audience, I think you could interpret it beyond this...and I don't think the two are necessarily mutuallyÖdiametrically opposed to each other, it's just that you have to view this in context. AMY KASS: Itís a big question if the important issue is finally how we're going to live our lives, and the veterans serve as a way of reminding us to think seriously about that question. ELIOT A. COHEN: We agree. AMY KASS: I know we agree, but we don't agree with my next moveóweíre thinking seriously about how we're going to live our lives precisely because they gave our lives for something so that we could live. ELIOT A. COHEN: That's Memorial Day. LEON KASS: Well, it's true that Memorial Day is about the fallen. But...and I agree with Rafi that one doesn't want to blur the differences between these holidays. But not only the fallen, but those who survived...many of the differences between them might have been a matter of accident and being in the wrong place at the wrong time. They were engaged in a common activity, the meaning of which is to protect and to serve us and our way of life. And the nation is always in the debt of those people, and to honor them, you have to honor them above and beyond the way you compensate them, whether in terms of money or other sorts of things. ELIOT A. COHEN: What do you want us to do? I mean, we say 'thank you for your service.' Okay, I've done that. What beyond that are we suppose to do? LEON KASS: Well, partly it's to pause and try to think very hard about what is our relation to them. I mean, 'thank you for your service' is easy off the tip of the tongue, but to think hard about what our veterans of all of our wars have in fact done to make possible the way of life that we have, which, in fact, we haven't simply earned. There is a certain kind of grace that is here, and we should have really a kind of deep gratitude and a certain determination--not just on Veterans Day--that they shall not have sacrificed or served for naught. AMY KASS: And I think a very good way to begin to think about some of these issues is to begin where Rafi suggested: think about the stories that lots of people who come home have to tell, the kinds of small things that they did, the kinds of small sacrifices that they've made, the things that they've missed, and the things that you are blessed enough to have. 