WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

The original idea for this meeting was really, really small. It was just a small sort of seminar and the seminar was going to feature these two authors. I had recently read Margaret's book Detained and Deported (you can see the screenshot or the poster of it over there) on top of finishing reading Anna's book, Terrorizing Latina and Latino Immigrants. And it occurred to me these two books although coming from different, I guess traditions. Margaret is a journalist and Anna is a social scientist. So coming from very different backgrounds in a certain sense really speak to one another very, very well, and if you've not read the books I encourage you to do so. They're fascinating, they speak really well together. So let me just introduce our two guests here. Starting with Margaret. I've known Margaret for a number of years. Margaret is the author of two prize-winning books on immigration, both from Beacon Press. Detained and Deported, Stories of Immigrant Families under Fire, which she's going to talk about today, as well as The Death of Josseline, which was published a few years ago. In 2010. And Margaret actually came out here and spoke about the book at that time. Margaret is a long-time journalist in Tucson. And Margaret holds a Bachelors Degree in French from the University of Pennsylvania. And she's studied French at the Sorbonne in Paris. And she has twice gone to the Guatemala to study Spanish in the colonial city of Antigua. After working as French editor for TV Guide magazine and a children's book editor at McGraw-Hill in New York, Margaret turned to journalism. She started as a reporter at the Express Times in eastern Pennsylvania and since 1990 she's been writing for Tucson Weekly. She won many many awards and in my mind, she is one of the journalists of record on the immigratio. I'll read her stuff and trust it before a lot of other people's. Her work has been widely published in Washington Post, Al Jazeera English, among many other spots. She's been a TED talk speaker, and has appeared in interviews on NPR and many news programs. So I'm really happy that Margaret could come. Dr. Anna Sampaio is Director and Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies and Political Science at Santa Clara University, with specialization in immigration, latino latina politics, race and gender politics. Intersectionality and transnationalism. Her book, of which she's going to speak about, Terrorizing Latina, Latino Immigrants: Race, Gender, and Immigration Politics in the Age of Security, which was published in 2015 won the 2016 American Political Science Association Award for best new book in Latino Politics of the book is fascinating. It really is fascinating. It examines how changes in immigration politics, policy and enforcement have been racialized and gendered and impose inequitable burdens on Latino immigrants. She's published widely on this topic, including another book Transnational Latina/o Communities: Politics, Processes and Cultures, published in 2002. In addition to this has published numerous peer review articles in prestigious places. In addition to being active in the American Political Science Association in Western Political Science Association, Dr. Sampaio He's co-editor of the Journal Politics Groups and Identities and has served previously as Associate Professor of Women's and Gender Studies at Rutgers University. And so I'd like to welcome them. Thank you. &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] &gt;&gt; The way we're gonna proceed is sort of talk show format so I'm gonna be like. Merv Griffin or something like that. Mike Douglas. If you get that reference then you're old. [COUGH] But first before, because you've had enough of me, I've been up here feel like all day long. I've asked each of the authors, Margaret and Anna To spend some time talking about the book project, motivation behind it, the central themes. And as you see and as they talk, you're gonna see the real close connection that these books have with one another. And so, I think we'll just start in alphabetical order cuz I'm creative like that. And I just have Margaret do you wanna come. &gt;&gt; What's that? [LAUGH] And so Margaret is gonna come up here. You might wanna turn off that because it'll interfere with this yeah. Okay, how long you want me to talk for? &gt;&gt; Ten minutes? &gt;&gt; Ten minutes, okay. &gt;&gt; You can go over, it's all right. Okay, can you hear me? Great, okay.Yeah, I'm hear to talk about my book Detained and Deported and how I got started on this project and why? This is a photo of the wall in Nogales and I think it's kind of fascinating the last few days all the news reporting we've heard about the wall. They always say Trump is going to build a wall as though we don't even have a wall. This is a picture of the wall as it is 60 miles from my home in Tucson. This wonderful photo was taken by a young Tucson photographer named Samantha Seis. This is a frequent or an everyday occurence on the border. You have family members that greet each other across the border. This new wall that we have in Nogales was built just about five years ago. We used to have. The landing flats fence which is a nice metaphorical thing. They were landing flats that were used in the Persian Gulf War and in the Vietnam War. They were left over. They were helicopter mats that were put out in the desert and the jungle, and then we brought them here and made this makeshift wall along the border. Back in the days of Operation Gatekeeper. We're getting more and more serious about our wall. Five years ago, you can see these posts there. Unintended consequences is, Border Patrol put these up cuz they wanted operational awareness of the wall, be able to see through onto the other side, which you can imagine is a good thing for them. What also happened, it became a gathering place for families. And I have seen many families greeting each other through the wall in this way. I once saw a mother had brought her little child on the Mexican side. The father on the American side. And the little child was handing his school papers through the wall to show his dad what he was doing in School. So, we do very much have a wall in Arizona. We have 307 miles of wall because in Arizona there's the places the places that you can readily build the wall unlike in Texas which has many issues around the Rio Grande River because the Rio Grande River serves as a border. There's so many things to talk about I thought maybe I would just read a tiny bit from the introduction of my book, which gives you an overview about the two factors that I'm looking at in this book, the detention centers and the deportation of immigrants. And I have a couple pictures of Eloy Detention Center, which is the third largest detention center in the United States. It's run by Corrections Corporation of America, which recently got a jazzy new name because, I guess, the old name has been vilified, and I can't remember what it is. It's one of these kind of branding things that doesn't sound like a word. They're a private prison corporation, and as we heard just In the last discussion you cannot underestimate the role of the private prison corporations and are increase in border enforcement. They tell you when you grow up there, they tell you again and again. This is not a prison, this is the detention center, but as you can see it looks very much like a prison and pay board treated as prisoners So just read very briefly, for my introduction, the first time I visited the Eloy Detention Center I went up there to visit a woman who had been incarcerated. And I don't have her picture because, when you go to visit as a friend, you're not allowed to take pictures. In the detention center as a friend or family. I later went back as a journalist and was able to get photos, but I have no pictures of her. Yolanda Fontaz sat in her prison scrubs and watched the families gathered all around her. Husbands were reconnecting with wives. Sisters with sisters. Mothers with children. It was a sunny Sunday in April and the families had flocked to the Eloy Detention Center. A dreary for-profit immigration prison in Arizona to visit their detained loved ones. A female prisoner sat with her small son on her lap. Her arms wrapped tightly around him, as if she were imagining never letting him go. The aunt who had brought the little boy spoke sorrowfully to her sister as the child snuggled in her mother's embrace. Nearby an imprisoned father Sat across a table from his wife, clutching her hand. They were trying to talk but their four year old daughter, hungry and tired, fussed on the floor below. None of the families in the packed room had any privac. An `impassive` guard presided over their melancholy reunions. Keeping a close watch on the mothers and fathers dressed in jail-bird scrubs. The visiting room was bleak and windowless, lived by glaring prison lights. It was a beautiful spring day outside, but no rays of sunlight pierce the cinderblock walls. Alone among the detainees in this stark space, Yolanda had no family visiting, just me, a writer who had come to hear her story. She was glad to be out of her prison unit, and she was full of smiles, determined to be cheerful. Yet her tale was grim and she looked at the other detainees wistfully as she recounted it. During the two years she'd spent locked up in Eloy she'd seen her two little girls and her son only sporadically. The children all American citizens lived in a distant suburb Northwest of Phoenix. They came to visit their mom, only one, a relative or friend could spare the time to drive the 200 mile round trip to Eloi. The last time Yolanda had seen them was two months before. Yolanda was 32. She slipped into Arizona from Mexico 17 years before when she was just 15. She spoke flawless English, and even though she had no papers, she'd never had any difficulty finding a job. And until two years ago, she'd never had trouble with immigration, either. But the father of her two younger children regularly beat her, and one attack triggered a series of disasters that landed her in jail, and now in detention. The abuse of x had the two kids and Yolanda was facing deportation. She could have accept her removal to Mexico right away and gotten out of Iloi. But if she were deported, she would lose her children. So, she stayed in the prison month after month finding her case hoping to persuade a judge to overturn her deportation order. Praying to get back to her daughters and her son. Yolanda spirits flagged just once during the two hours we talked. The last time the kids came to see her she said, her five year old little Dee had look up at her suspiciously. He told me I didn't look like his mother she said. Her own child was starting to forget her. Down in New Galas on the Mexican side of the border Gustavo Sanchez-Perez was just as worried about his kids. He was a 25 year old landscaper from Phoenix. I met him early, one hot July morning at a Catholic comedor Just steps from the International line. He was one of 60 deportees eating a hardy breakfast of beans and rice in a humble dining hall, run by an order of Mexican nuns. Like Yolanda, Gustavo had moved with his family from Mexico to the United States as a child. Born in Vera Cruz, he'd come to Phoenix at the age of eight and he'd lived there ever since. He spoke perfect English. He and his wife had two small children, a boy of four and a baby girl. Both of them US citizens. Gustavo had been arrested in Phoenix for riding his bicycle at night without a light. And then detained by ICE. He'd rotated through several detention centers in Arizona and in Colorado before being tossed back over the border into. He'd always work hard to support his children. What was their mother doing now, he wondered without his wages coming in He was staying in a shelter but he would have to move on soon. Nogales was reeling under a deluge of deportees from the United States and the town's shelters didn't have the resources to house los deportados longer than three days. Gustavo would have to move on. His mother in Phoenix had advised him to go back to Vera Cruz, but he had no intention of returning to a place where everyone was a stranger. He knew where he needed to be, at home with his children in Phoenix. The way to get back to them lay over the border and through the Arizona desert. But the journey would be `perilous` in more ways than one. He could die out there in the desert as so many had done before him. And if he made it through he ran the risk of arrest. If they catch me, he said, I get ten years in jail. So those are sort of the dimensions of what I'm trying to write about, sort of the cycle of people Who have lived here for a long time, they suddenly get caught Gustavo got caught on a very minor violation and they end up having their whole lives up ended and very often separated from their families. Either as in the case of Yolanda whiling away years in the detention centers or like Gustavo getting deported over the border And certainly many of the migrants that I met in Nogales when I was researching this book who were trying to cross were people who had families in the United States. The migrants I met some years ago when I was researching my previous book The Death Of Jocelyne. A lot of them were first time border crossers. But now when you go down there you see many more people who are deportees, who had lived in the United States for many years and got deported and they have these families in the United States. So there's a complete desperation about getting back over that wall and back through that desert. And I think somebody just said in the previews panel, there's nothing like that kind of need and desperation to over come a border wall no matter how large. I could show if you more pictures now if you want or if you wanna handed over to Anna. With a couple more. Yeah, because you had said you were interested in seeing, I have a lot of pictures of what it looks like for the deportees when they get back over there. let me just scroll through. This is an interesting picture, something very common, and very common, say, in the southwest. This is a line of migrants who have just been apprehended by the border patrol. Then I have a series of pictures inside Eloy Detention Center. These men here are Guatemalans seeking asylum. Eloy Detention Center and many of the Detention Centers are filled with asylum seekers. And they can be in there for years at a time. I met one man, a Brazilian man seeking asylum, who had been in detention for seven years when I met him. So it goes beyond any kind of statutory legal operation to keep a person in a prison that long. But in the detention center, without any kind of charges or trial. These are, again, they define these as not being prisons so people can be held their indefinitely. They never know how long they're gonna be here. There's a lot of desperation in these places. This was a group of evangelical religious Guatemalan men. They bring in a preacher And people were singing and crying and breaking down. Most of them don't have families in the United States who can visit them. And if they do have families in the United States, they are undocumented, and they can't visit them. So they're alone and they're pretty depressed. This is a woman's unit. You can see it looks just like a prison. The guy who gave me the tour kept saying you can see this is not a prison. But they had, it's an old, state prison that they renovated into something nicer. A detention center, those are the showers across there. This is 9 o'clock in the morning. These women are just sitting around. They have absolutely nothing to do, there were hardly any programs at all, because it's supposed to be short-term. I always liked this picture of them doing the puzzle of a beautiful landscape far away where they cannot go. This is a picture of a typical women's cell. They didn't allow my friend Jay, the photographer, to take a picture of the toilet sitting in the middle of the room. It gives you some idea of the indignities that Are leveled on people. This is very much a prison. One of the good things about Eloy, though, is it has a lot of separate buildings. And so people can, under supervision, they have to walk outside from building to building. But they do have a lot of lockdowns, so there's a true sense of confinement all the time. And just real quick, this picture was taken in California. I believe, it's not my photo, of deportees crossing back in. Any day, along the border, you see this line-up of migrants coming back in. It's just all in a day's work. The American guards speak in a friendly fashion with the Mexican guards waiting to receive them. The Mexican government, about eight years ago or so had to respond to their crisis of large numbers of deportees being dumped in these small border towns, so they initiated a lot of programs. When they first get there, all these guys have just come from detention. You can see the guy in the mustard colored shirt has a plastic bag. That's a sign of coming from Eloy. They have a plastic bag for their possessions. So the government in Mexico offers certain services. A phone call to their families, a visit to a nurse if they want one, sometimes they'll give them a half-price bus ticket back home. And they give them a little document. Interestingly, they're documented deportees saying that they're entitled to services in the town for eight days. This is another view of the border wall. You can see how the old town of Nogales which use to be kind of one place. The Arizona side, the Sonora side has been very divided by the wall. This is a shelter, one of the services offered to deportees in Nogales. They're allowed to stay here for three days. And again, it's a place of a lot of sorrow and depression. These guys are here. They have no idea what to do. They've just been dumped here. Their families might be in Seattle or Chicago or Virginia. And here they are in this place along the border. They have to leave in three days. They have to figure out what they're gonna do next. This is a nice shelter run by the Catholic church. That's where I met Gustavo. It's called the Come d'Or. It's a Jesuit operation run by an order of nuns. They offer two hearty meals a day and a lot of kind of emotional comfort to these migrants. In this picture, I think you can see two women in the background Very often it's largely men but some days you see lots of women. And I've seen plenty of children in there too, whole deported families. This is a man who lost his leg on the way up, riding on top of La Bestia. He was there in he had been rescued. He fell off the You guys know about [FOREIGN], the trains that the very impoverished migrants ride. He fell off, his leg was sliced off, he nearly died. He happened to have been seen by somebody who got him to a hospital. And of all things, in Nogales, there's an organization that creates prostheses. He was a fisherman from Vera Cruz, he had fled the cartel violence And now he was a fisherman sitting on a border town in Northern Mexico with no idea with of what he was going to do next. Boarder wall, we've seen lots of pictures of it, again this is a very tall and very secure border wall. interestingly all the way on the right That's the border marker in the 19th century. That's all we had. We had those little border markers all along the border wall. There was a whole border commission. I think it was around 1870s to mark the border wall and the border was very easily passable. Again the border wall so I'll just end there and let Anna present her book. And then I guess we're gonna do Q and A after. Thanks. &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] [SOUND] Thank you, Margaret. Thank you, Brad and Jessica and Vicky and also for the entire ISS for putting this together. It's obviously an important topic that's become even more pressing and urgent in the wake of our new administration. But even more so in the last week. As Brad mentioned, the title of my book is Terrorizing Latino Immigrants, Race, Gender, and Immigration Politics in the Age of Security. And this was actually a project that I started more than ten years ago. This came out of work that I had been doing previously on transnational forms of organization and mobilization, particularly amongst women In the state of Chiapas which as many of you know was, or has been in a low intensity war since early 1990s as indigenous populations rose up against the implementation of NAFTA. And I had been working with Latinas and indigenous women in the United States, formalizing these transnational cooperatives with indigenous women in the state Chiapas around weaving cooperatives and some garden cooperatives. And this was work that I did in conjunction with a local nonprofit organization called the Chiapas Coalition. Fairly innocuous Smartly group of academics, activists, faith based persons and so this was a picture of me in the 1990s in Shiopas in the community of Vits in the highlands of Shiopas and just in a few years after the initial uprising and response to Nafta And this was really the basis of the ethnographic work that went into some of the research that I did in the transnational Latino communities. So this work had been going on for me for several years. And then in 2003 I was contacted by the American Civil Liberties Union in Colorado where as I living at that time. And they said while we had been litigating this case involving some activist who were protesting Nafta and in the course of discovery of that particular case, we discovered Some files, some intelligence files that had been collected by the Denver Police Department that they were this database of electronic files that they weren't being very public about, but your name came up in association with these files. I will show you Where it came up. It came up in a database of files that described a organization that I was affiliated with, this nonprofit called the Chiapas Coalition, as a criminal extremist organization. Now, Chiapas Coalition again, like many of the nonprofits many of you organized with This is a group primarily dedicated to the promotion of peaceful ends in this conflict in the state of Chiapas and they held rallies. They held conferences much like this. Vigils because there was a strong faith-based influence. There was a lot of affiliation with the church in mobilizing faith-based support. They we're by no means criminal. And nothing the actions they had taken or where they're extreme. Nonetheless all the members of the group had been profiled in this police database. And I also then had my own personal file that was discovered in the course of this litigation. And it turned out that there were several thousands of us individuals across the state of Colorado that hadn't profiled in these files. And then information included in some cases, fairly innocuous information as you see in my file where I lived at the time. It did include some information about my personal associates and this is how I got the file, I got it redacted in this fashion. So there were people who I was affiliated with, I still don't know who was in this file, but who were also then scrutinized by virtue of their association with me. I assume it's my husband. I assume it's my colleagues in my department. I don't really know who the people that were also profiled by virtue of their association with me. But I can tell you The file included such descriptions as this of one of our members, Antonio Anthony. An active protestor with the Chiapas Coalition has demonstrated in Washington, DC during protests against the IMF and World Bank Blames the Mexican financial policies responsible for the uprise in Chiapas, which he sounds like a strong, radical activist, and then you find out she's a 72-year-old Franciscan nun. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; And not to say that &gt;&gt; The Franciscan nuns can't be radical activists and bad asses in themselves. They are. But the idea that this is a criminal extremist that needs to be scrutinized and profiled and monitored by the state was truly problematic. And it was this &gt;&gt; Process of being scrutinized that was of deep concern to me, not just because I was being scrutinized, but it turned out that in the course of then bringing a lawsuit against the Denver Police Department, the ACLU found out that they had actually &gt;&gt; Over a 20, no actually it was over 11,000 files. Hard copy as well as electronic files that had stretch to back multiple decades and that were profiling individuals and organizations who were active primarily in communities of color so that they were actually deeply racialize. &gt;&gt; Files. These were either activists of color themselves or activists working in conjunction with communities of color, either immigrant communities, in many cases with the American Indian movement which was very active in Colorado. And that these files, the police department initially said, don't worry. These are just internal documents. You need not worry about Any implications for your daily life. Turns out they had been shared with over two dozen law enforcement across the country, including local law enforcement, but also FBI, at the time, INS, TSA. They had been shared widely, which meant that while I certainly as a natural born citizen didn't necessarily feel The threat of being disappeared or necessarily apprehended by virtue of this. What did become a reality for me, is in the course of travelling to places like Chiapas, in the course of working with vulnerable immigrant communities, even their association with me could bring unwarranted scrutiny and attention and profiling, as you saw in that particular file. So it had a direct implication for How I was able to go about my work particularly ethnographic work within vulnerable communities and agree to which I could then report and even collect information on those vulnerable communities. Places like Chiapas. Those kind of entries of people who have high profile status typically have served as a vehicle for. For them either the Mexican military, the immigration authorities or local police to then thoroughly scrutinize those communities. This all happened, let me note this all happened the collection of these files &gt;&gt; Prior to 9/11, that is prior to this rapid escalation of state authority and all of these additional apparatus that allowed for that kind of scrutiny. And it did give me a kind of moment of pause to begin thinking about, Well, if my status as a first generation Latina but who is natural born citizen and who is relatively protected status is in jeopardy or is made vulnerable, what happens to those populations that That I've been working with that are even more vulnerable by virtue of their location in relationship to these issues of race, class, and gender. And this became then the genesis of the book. The book then traces changes in immigration. Politics particularly changes in law, policy, and implementation over not just to the period of 911 because we know that these processes of the security apparatus and the changes Actually extend back for the net. Really looking at this formation of the security state over the last 30 years. The particular impacts on immigration and then the particular effects on Latinos. I used this slide typically when I'm doing the presentation other for my students or elsewhere. &gt;&gt; As a way to kinda short hand way to kind of sum up some of that change and what impact it had. On the top you see this cartoon that came from a far right or what we would call now alt rights magazine during the debates about Proposition 187 here in California &gt;&gt; And in that particular cartoon, you can see the proponents of 187 sort of saying, here is this migrant who's crossing illegally and he's gonna take your wallets and he's gonna benefit from all these social services &gt;&gt; And the argument here is that Mexican immigrants need to be feared because they are an economic threat to the country. In particular at this time in the state of California and this became a mobilizing narrative in the state of California for passing prop 187. That they are a cultural and an economic threat. Fast forward to 2005, and you have this woman working in conjunction with the Minute Man and other vigilante groups on the Arizona border. And she's holding the sign projected out to the border, which was also odd, that says terrorists love open borders. And here the narrative has obviously shifted. &gt;&gt; That the construction of the immigrants now is not that they are so much an economic threat of the attack was still circulating. But that we need it to detain, we need to encumber, we need it to recognize and also mostly remove immigrants because they caused to the security threat in this particular case, a terrorist threat. So this project then was guided by couple of questions &gt;&gt; Namely how is immigration, politics, and practice changed in the last 30 years and particularly since 9/11 how race and gender figured into and informed the policies, practices, and discourses of this context. How my intersectionality and particularly attention to this Relationship between race, and gender, and class, reveal information about these changes and then what impact have they had on Latino immigrants. And so the guiding sort of thesis, then, was that Latinos and Latino immigrants in particular become positioned as terrorists. As the security state evolves and as these practices become implemented, at the same time that they become terrorized by the state, right? So they would get proffered as potential terrorists. It becomes a justifying narrative the same time they experience the most Negative impacts of the state. And I look at three different areas. I look at changes in legislation, particularly the increased opportunities for detention, the decreased access to resources from the state, particularly the increased cooperation between local law enforcement and federal law enforcement, &gt;&gt; Deuptizing local law enforcement to act as arms of the state. So I look at the changes in legislation but then I also look at changes in implementation. So a big part of the book is tracking the proliferation or raids and round ups and particularly the return Two raids and round ups as a prefered tactic of implementation and the kind of public spectacle and disciplining mechanism. Those raids and round ups have, not just on the immigrant communities but on our broader swatch of Latinos in the United States. And so I look at their proliferation and then the extension beyond what has been called the noisy raids to quiet raids. That is as they move from this large scale spectacles, Into internal investigations that are still ongoing. Thos kinds of rates, those quite rates have in fact not stopped. Even under the Obama administration, they're just taking on a different character. And then finally, I look at the implications for citizenships so I have a chapter looking at How the process for effectively de-Americanizing this immigrant population for scrutinizing and then detaining them has implications for American born citizens. So I look at the cases John Walker Lindh, Yaser Hamdi and Jose Padilla in the degree to which even citizenship then gets encumbered. As the processors used on immigrants on trail transferred into cases involving natural born citizens who also are accused of security issue. So I will leave it there and then certainly push out some details in conversation. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] [NOISE] Can you all hear me? Okay, thank you very much. Those are really great presentations and you anticipated a lot of my questions. The way I wanna proceed is I just have some general questions. Just open up discussion. Some might be directed to one or both of you and then after a while maybe turn it over to the audience 'cuz you guys probably have better questions There are certainly have questions if not better ones that I do. But I do want to start with sort of where you ended off in your presentation there Anna and this really goes to both of you. It's the narrative of terror, it infiltrates your book as well as [INAUDIBLE And, of course, it's a motivating factor in yours. I wonder if you could maybe, start with Anna, elaborate a little bit more on just how pervasive this terror narrative really is and how it's been Material they use to justify really bad things, either politically, or in terms of policy, and then maybe turn it over to you, if you have any comments. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm sorry, I come from a Latino family where you have to talk loud and fast if you wanna be heard, so I might not be &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] [CROSSTALK] Push a little button &gt;&gt; All right can you here me? Okay, so you're actually right. It's the change in discourse and the proliferation of these descriptions of Latinos as these potential terrorists. The easy conflation of them as potential terrorists is truly troubling and is a legitimizing narrative, right? That is what then serves as the basis then, to argue for Not only broad changes in law and policy like the USA Patriot act, the creation of the Homeland Security Department but a whole host of other pieces of legislation that happen particularly under the Bush and then the early parts of the Obama administration. We like to think that congress was not or has not been active on immigration even though they have plenary power of this issue And it's far from the truth that they have in fact been very active on immigration legislation. It's simply the preponderance of it is very restrictive immigration legislation. There's no activity on comprehensive immigration legislation. But part of what I try to do in the book is to demonstrate how the The discussions about horizon and security are also deeply rationalized as well as gendered. And I think there is a way in which folks are inedible as misunderstanding as how placed into and it's not supply every immigrant becomes a threat to the state. It's not every immigrant become potentially profile. And that's truth as well in the Trump administration that it is particularly Muslim Arab immigrants as well as Latino immigrants that become the targets of the State, right? So it's folks that are marked either by religious or ethnic difference that then get constructed as threats. They get constructed as this foreign enemy ready to disrupt the carefully cultivated homeland. And that by virtue of that need to be detained or need to be deported or need to be removed. But there's also this very interesting performance of gender that happens. And again, we're sort of becoming, I think, a little bit more attuned to that now. That the state mobilizes and performs, and here I'm using a kinda Judith Butler understanding of performance. But Mobilizer performs a particular gendered narrative as a way to elicit buy-in. Right, so what happens under the Bush administration is that they performed this, they engaged this narrative that says, hey look, we're engaging in Military devotion abroad. And we're engaging in these maybe aggressive practices at home, but it's for your benefit. We're not doing so because we're aggressive, and mean, and nasty. We're doing so as the protective father figure. We're doing so because we are the masculine protector of the homeland. That we're doing so to protect literally our way of life. And that you should be in fact grateful because we are protecting all of you. You are a subordinate and we know better than you. And so shush, don't fight back because this is in your interest, just as a father figure would presumably protect his gender subordinates. The state utilizes that same trope, and it comes out over and over and over again. It comes out, in the `justification` for these rates. You heard attorney Michael saying things like. Well. we, you know,we went into these airports, and we rounded up all these nulley,generals and service personnel, because they were persons of a non origin, we did it,because we didn't want them, you know, getting on a plan and blowing it up. So, there's this easy equivalence between a janitor who has a false security number and a person getting on a plane and blowing up a bomb or you have people on Homeland Security saying, well we actually took this people into detention and they are been fined and imprisoned for their benefit because you know, they've been working without this proper documentation And somebody from Al-Qaeda could have found that out and use that to their detriment. So in fact, we have engaged in what is a very humane, they used that terminology humane gesture by detaining them and imprisoning them for the Their benefit and the benefit of the home land. And there's this consistent appeal to this masculine protectionism as a way to justify the state's performance. Now I think we can talk about this later, but there is a different version of masculinity that Donald Trump is performing. There are still appeals to the nation. There's still appeals to the paternalism. You saw that actually in the descriptions of those two executive orders just in the last few days.Even going so far as to say We need to fortify the border for Mexico's protection because of all of these potential Central American terrorists and security concerns that are threatening them, right? So there were some appeal that, "But he performs a slightly different forms of masculinity, a more aggressive, sexually dominant Masculinity and then at times also this injured masculinity that equally justifies these kind of actions he's taking. So part of what I was interested in doing was not only tracing this shift in discourse but to teasing out the way that race and gender played particularly roles. In the state's practices both as a legitimizing narrative, but also in its performance of that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, well, yeah, I don't have too much to add to that. In the context of Arizona, which is the place that I write about and study, we had a long-time pattern of campesinos coming over, and here in California as well. And after 9/11, every Campesino was redefined as a potential terrorist. It has nothing to do with reality, people are still coming here for jobs and supporting their families but this whole layer of the state as you say, you know the huge increase in border patrol and in expenditure of border. &gt;&gt; [COUGH] &gt;&gt; Enforcement after 9/11. Complicated and made more dangerous and more fatal and already a very difficult humanitarian crisis along the border. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Continue in this theme, both of you sort of, and you're a journalist I'm going to start with you, but both of you sort of implicate a little bit the media. In terms of perpetuating sort of this terror narrative. What role if any do you see the media playing in this because there's a lot of narratives that one could take? To discuss immigration and immigration issues. But this seems to be a prevalent one. That you don't take, but if you've written non extensively on both of the books. &gt;&gt; I remember, you know, eight years ago, in South Arizona, somebody found a rag, out along one of the migrants purse, that, look, they claimed like. An Islamic prayer rug. And the hysteria that followed from, it was probably something that came from Walmart. &gt;&gt; I was living there then, yeah. &gt;&gt; Just some kind of Asian looking design, and complete hysteria in the local media about &gt;&gt; The absolute danger that was being created, of course, the whole thing was a complete farce, but it doesn't stop people from grabbing onto that. I think that the media in general really ignore the human dimension of it, which is what in my book, in my writing, I always try to Find the human beings who are actually the victims of the policies that we have, the real impact on real lives. I think it was interesting in the previous discussion, the study that you and your graduate student were working on, the fact that people don't know about the migrant deaths I've talked all around the country when I wrote that book The Death of Josseline. Which is primarily about the migrant deaths and the difficulties of the journey. And people all around the country said to me I had no idea this was happening. I had no idea. How come I'm not hearing about it. And one of the things about the migrant deaths that keeps it hidden is that they're individual, they're one by one, they're bodies lost in the desert. A guy in Tucson once said well, every year in Tucson, we have about 200 bodies that are found. Some years more, some years less. We always have to emphasize Bodies found because there are way more bodies that were never found because of the degradation and the deterioration of the bodies in the desert. What fi we had plane crash in two sun every single year and 200 people die. Everyone will be so alarmed and they would say we have to do something about this two sun problem all these deaths every single year how can we mobilize as a nation? But when you have those desks, one by one, of mostly unknown people and so many of the bodies are not found, they can just be ignored. So they're all these different dimensions of the immigration issues that are just never covered by the media. I do think the whole thing we had conversations about ever since the election Of the media trying to create parody all the time, and not saying well this is a lie that this guy just said, and here's the truth of the matter. It seems like all the sudden the papers are getting a little more aggressive in that respect in trying to say, no you can't just say, this guy is lying and this one Treat each statement equally. So, I don't know, I think the media, like everybody, tends to hit stereotypes, and they go with them, and they make a good story, and they become these familiar narratives, like the thing in the rug. You know, that everybody said it must be true that the Muslims are across the border, and no evidence ever of that ever. Or has merged. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I was there when that happened, I remember the headlines. Arizona has become terrorist alley. &gt;&gt; Yeah, yeah, yeah. &gt;&gt; As Rene pointed out, 21 out of 400,000 deport &gt;&gt; Reported or classified as terrorists, so, overstatement, but- &gt;&gt; Well, but I think that it's important that, even when there are apprehensions on some suspicion of terrorist activity, there is actually no cases where somebody has been litigated as, in fact, a terrorist, right? There's no, in fact, evidence of terrorist association, and somebody in fact hasn't been convicted of terrorist association. Or a conspiracies to terrorism, who is a Latino immigrant. I mean, the whole highest profile case involving a latino was this guy Jose Padilla, back in 2002, who's Puerto Rican, he's obviously not an immigrant. And the state couldn't make that case for terrorism, right? So it's truly fictitious this idea that Latino immigrants are terrorists is completely fictitious. But with respect to the media specifically, there was a way in which, critical in the raids, there was this mirroring effect where the media would simple report the media releases or The press statements that were issued by Homeland Security or the US attorney office, there would be no scrutiny of that, they simply mirror what the state was putting out and lock step. Copied and pasted into their reporting entire arguments that, again, were deeply racialized and gendered in this particular way. But at the same time, I have to say that the media were incredibly important for me in tracking the raids. Because when it came for Homeland Security not only myself but people in the Brennan Institute I know at New York University asked Homeland Security for documents tracking the raids and The responds from the homeless security was that we don't do rates anymore. Not only are we not tracking them, we don't do them anymore. Because they were using the same terminology that we were using. And they said yes, we will scrutinized things like I'm enforced but we're not doing any rates And the only way to figure out when and where and how the raids were happening and who was being impacted and the particular impacts on Latinos was actually from local media reporting. And so the local papers in places like Denver and Omaha, those were the ones that would then provide the descriptions or local reporters who were on seen. They would provide the local description. But that was the only way of tracking nationally what was happening so the media was incredibly important in capturing that data, even at the same time where reporters were copying and pasting press statements from DHS. I'm gonna pick up on a couple of things that you just raised and this will be directed at you, at your book Anna. You do an outstanding job in the book of talking about how policy seemingly unrelated to immigration Actually induce profound effects on immigration. And as a quote, you say that some of these acts basically require entities to, quote, take on enforcement duties through the expansion of law enforcement powers. Which has had the effect of, basically it's your argument, of marginalizing women's rights. And women's rights legislation therefore becomes a means of targeting immigrants, constructing them as a potential threat to the homeland, and creating new mechanisms for their control. I wonder, cuz I think that's an important part of the book, is sort of talking about these negative externalities that have emerged from some of these policies that, as I said, you wouldn't think of them as being immigration-related. Could you Talk a little bit about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, so part of what happens and Renee does this really well. Is describing how this apparatus of the security state becomes so strong that it affects all of these different areas of law and policy. Even areas that we wouldn't think of at first blush as having to do with immigration. And so there's two pieces of legislation that I look at. In this chapter on tracking the changes in law and policy. One of which is The Violence Against Women Act, which again, was initially created prior to 9/11, and was created as a substantive piece of legislation intended to protect victims of domestic violence, not exclusively women and children but Often that's the case. It was re-authorized in I believe 2005 and then similarly the Trafficking Victims Protection Act which provides protection for people who were fleeing Gender based violence including things like sexual slavery, sexualized crime, and providing them with visas for entry. Both of which on the surface are important pieces of gender legislation intended to expand if not Not women's rights exclusively, the protections against gender based violence. But what happens in the context of the security state that sees all immigrants as threats and hijacks every opportunity to further scrutinize, is that there is enabling parts Of those even those particular pieces of legislation that allows for local police departments who are supposed to be working with non-profits community based organizations to support victims of domestic violence, to report to active agents, reporting persons who they believe are undocumented and then to work with federal authorities And regional centers to then apprehend those Peoples who are undocumented so that they actually in the legislation themselves have budgets, resources and even man not mandate is not the right word prescriptions for how local police can then act as reporting agents for persons they believe are undocumented and pose national security concerns. So here you have gender operating in a different way. When we think about gender at social sciences, there's often a flat way in which we think about gender. We often think about it's just in a body identity. But here, you've got gender implicated in the construction of law and policy. And the mobilization of gender as a vehicle for the state, right? The state is utilizing gender and this near to about gendered rights In order to expand it's reach and its particular security apparatus right. And so the troubly thing that even the, this legislation that is incredibly important and it has some beneficial effects doesn't end up protecting oftentimes. Or even it can act. As a vehicle to then go after Latino communities, including Latinas who are caught up in many of these raids that are happening at the same time as. &gt;&gt; Thank you. I'm gonna turn to Margaret's book and maybe change the focus a little bit here. One thing you're really good at And I think everyone should read both of these books. But one thing that I really like in your book is that you can tell really good stories about people. And one thing I would like you to maybe talk a little bit about is that, we hear a lot about sort of mixed generation households, mixed immigration status households. And we sort of throw that phrase out in a fairly sterile kind of way, almost like it's demographic. There's a household with an undocumented and a documented person or a citizen and a non-citizen or what have you. Well in your book you talk about Arly and Sylvia, and I wonder if you could maybe talk a little bit about that story and just Just the struggles facing these sort of mixed generation or not mixed generation but mixed status households which are prevalent. &gt;&gt; Yeah and those two people are in the same generation. This is a story in my book about a family, mother and father were from Mexico. They had a baby girl named Arley. And made the decision to migrate North to Two Sun two years later they had another daughter named Sylvia and this family was interesting in that they had strategies along not to be detected. They didn't live in the more Mexican parts of town they went to the East side of Two Sun which is heavily white, heavily Moman Bought themselves a little red brick house and they never went on the highways. They had like sort of a whole strategy in their lives of how not to be caught by the immigration authorities. So they raised the two girls lovingly, of course. And the two girls were treated equally and the two girls had no idea that they had different legal statuses The mother was one of these moms that was rarely careful to get the kids into the best school programs. They were really good students. Really good family, she did a lot around raising them to give them every opportunity possible. The older girl, Arley, never knew that she was undocumented, and I think, so many young adults that I have met who are undocumented say the same thing they never understood that they had a different status. Now one young woman I had talked to in a different story, she said they never went anywhere in my family, they never even went to the park. She could never understand quite why they were always home with the family. But in this case, you know the mother did take them out and they were careful, but it got to be when the girls got to be teenagers things started changing. The older girl, Arley wanted to get her driver's license like all her friends were getting driver's license. She never knew that that was something that was not going to happen for her. And she learned at that time that she was undocumented and she didn't have that privilege to drive a car. Two years later her little sister comes along. She gets a driver license no problem. She's driving the family car. So there's that disparity but the big thing that happens is when it's time for those kids to go to college. Arley's this great student and a good school and the teachers are saying to her we want you to at least go to the University of Arizona. It's a very good state university right there in Tucson. And she would say, no, I'm going to go to community college. And the teachers will say, why? You're a really good student. You can get scholarship at the U of A. But she was too humiliated to tell her teachers that she was undocumented. And the reason she'd have to go to community college is that it was so much cheaper. Because in those days Undocumented students couldn't get in-state tuition at the state universities. So she started at the community college, and who had to drive her around was her little sister, which caused tension between the two daughters. But that was the only thing that they could afford for her, and the community college is quite different from a university campus. The campuses are all over town. So the upshot was the second girl goes to the University of Arizona. She's a brilliant student. She studies optical sciences, and all kinds of challenging courses. Right now that girl is in a PhD program. She goes to the U of A, she gets a bachelor's degree in the sciences, and now she is in A PhD program in the sciences and the older sister went through the community college as far as she could go and she became a waitress. The law has since change in Arizona we'll see what happens in this new era that we're in. The regions of the three states universities finally decided. You know when DOCA came in then anybody with a DOCA certification could get in state tuition at the university at all three of the state universities. So that is happening right now it's probably in jeopardy because the state has always fought against it, the regions have a certain amount of independence. But it's interesting to see. And then the mother, who's the person that I interviewed, she feels this terrible guilt and anguish. She said, how could I have done this to my kids? Why didn't I just stay in Mexico? Things might not have been so bad. We would Had family there because she also regretted very much as an undocumented person she was never able to go back home. She wasn't able to attend her mother's death. She hasn't seen her siblings in many years. So this whole family is really disrupted by The immigration status. And ironically, the younger daughter, when she reached the age of 21, was allowed to apply for status for her parents. Last I was in contact with the family, now the mother and father are here with green cards, the younger daughter is a citizen and the older daughter is undocumented and You know her future is bleak. So it's really interesting the way things have changed though in the last two generations, the way immigration has played down. And this is a huge problem. I was talking last night with Roy, who told us he is undocumented. And What that does to somebody, when they know that they don't have those kinds of opportunities, and what might happen. All the people a little bit younger than Arley, who were able to benefit from DOCA, and what that will mean for them if they suddenly lose That protection to at least stay here. So supposed DOCA goes down with the State of Arizona and other states, say, Okay now you're legal again so forget about going to our state universities. So it's really an issue about these parents that get deported. I have once write on my book about a woman, two children, US Citizens She gets deported. The children get taken by child protective services. Mother was never thought to be a bad mother. She was a good mother. Her only crime was being here unlawfully and the state moved very quickly to sever her parental rights. In that case she ended up having a lawyer who helped her and she's In Mexico she got her little girl back. And so you start asking from the perspective of human rights, what is the right of a child in the United States with full citizenship to be raised by his or her own parents? Because that's something that we have severed a lot. On any given day there's something like 5,000 children in foster care Who were removed from their families because their parents were getting deported. So they become parentless children in the care of the state simply because their own parent, who was a loving parent, was taken from them. &gt;&gt; I think at this point I've got a number of questions but &gt;&gt; Perhaps the audience does as well and so I like to open it up in the remaining time that we have for anyone who has any questions? &gt;&gt; [COUGH] &gt;&gt; Sir, I heard your story earlier about the &gt;&gt; The two daughters or whatever, did you guys ever find out why the mother decided to move from Mexico? Or what was the plight or reason she had to come here undocumented? &gt;&gt; Yeah, well she &gt;&gt; She and her husband had family up here already, the husband's brother was doing pretty well, he was working in Tucson, he had some kind of thing. They were not desperately poor people. I think in fact the mother was a dentist and now she's a cleaning lady in Tucson, you know that's the only job she could ever get. &gt;&gt; Today we're not destitute people like so many of the migrants that we see coming over but they just thought they could have a better life in the United States like so many before them and came for that reason. I think that's why the mother, you know is tricking with some guilt maybe things were not have been that bad and her two daughters would have a better, you know equal opportunities. So, in terms of how immigrants could frame and the kind of rationalization, Anna, in particular, I wanted to kinda hear your thoughts on this. Well, one of the comments when my friend said on Facebook, well not on Facebook, sent me a text message saying, &gt;&gt; Try to bring up more Asian American kind of voices and other racial groups, especially when you're talking about the unauthorized population. So I'll take that. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; Good request, seriously. So something like one out of every eight Asian immigrants in the country is undocumented. If you look at the Irish immigrant population, based on whatever rough estimates we have one out of every two Irish immigrants in the country is undocumented. And yet, so much of our discourse, including, I would say, scholarly discourse, reinforces this false notion that Latinos are immigrants. Most Latinos are not immigrants. And that immigration, or even the phenomenon of undocumented immigration, is mostly Latino. So, how can we Disrupt that. Because so much of what political elites do, is to reenforce that image. &gt;&gt; The work that we do now is social scientist, takes on even greater importance in revealing that data, much like kind of presentation helps us, &gt;&gt; To come to terms with more realistic data. But I think there's a difference between revealing what is the accurate estimates about the population, which is of vital importance, and not the least of which is to us, but to media outlets. As opposed to then scrutinizing the way in which narratives are constructed for other purposes, right? The narrative about &gt;&gt; Security threats wasn't constructed to give an honest of the Latino population. That wasn't what it was supposed to do. It was supposed to allow for the greater expansion of the security apparatus and the greater expansion of state authority. And it did very well at that. Right? And so it's a difference between trying to paint an accurate picture versus trying to interrogate What is the state doing in the mobilization of its ,the construction of the particular narrative,what goal is that?Serving?And then also why that and how is that particularly problematic and targeted very specific population?So the third narrative of. Threat did not extend to Asian Americans frankly. By and large the Asian Americans sort of were encumbered by that model minority myth right and that still is the case today right? There's this Idea that there are the good immigrants who are the H-1B immigrants. And those are the ones to degree that we're gonna allow for any additional immigrants. So that we will allow entry. And then there are the bad immigrants. And those are the H-2A undocumented immigrants, right? So I'm a little bit more concerned with how the narrative is constructed to [UNKNOWN and then how that has Particularly damaging impacts for this population already marginalized by race. &gt;&gt; I can ask a question. This is to Margaret. Okay, so you talk about in the book The program called Streamline. And I wonder if you could, or either of you could speak to this issue. I don't think most Americans know what Streamline is, and how that has possibly most likely impinged upon due process of migrants. I wonder if you could say a few words about Streamline? &gt;&gt; Okay. Show of hands who has heard of Operation Streamline. Okay. It was a Bush era program that we still have. I'm sure you've heard of the denigrating comment that we're doing catch and release along the border people come. For when I first started reporting on the border in 2000, that's what I saw. I was down in the town of Douglas and that was sort of The great immigrant highway back then,so many hundreds of people coming over,getting caught and then sent right back and this really a lot of people who were opposed to all these immigrations.So institute is kind of a model program because. It's in several different locations. There's at least one Texas. The one I'm familiar with is in Tuscon, and there's one in. In which they randomly, on any given day, of all the people that they catch, they take about 80 people and arrest them and charge them with the crime of entering the United States. And so other people maybe let go and sent back and just in terms of the law that's a pretty random arrest. Some people are charged and some people are not. They're taken to the border patrol for several days and then they're brought to the federal courthouse in Tuscon. They start their day at nine o'clock. There are gonna be 80 people tried in one trial, it's not a trial it's a hearing. 80 people at once so starting at 9:00 they meet with their attorneys, there are all these attorneys who are hired and paid a daily rate to work with these people. Each attorney has about 10 clients given to him or her at 9:00 in the morning To prepare for their hearings at 1:30. So, they have a very limited time with these people and some of them, I think, one guy that I interviewed for my book was actually a good-hearted public defender-type, had worked with low-income people his whole life who've been charged with crimes, and he said he tried really hard to find Reasons that they could `extricate` themself from this process but by and large all of them plead guilty because if they plead guilty they'll get a sentence of 30 to 60 to 90 days, depending on prior entries. And then they'll go back home. Then they'll get deported after that. If they elect to challenge it, and to plead innocent, and to have a case, that's their legal right to do so. But it also means that they will be held in prison for a year or two before they get a chance to argue their case. So, invariably, they plead not guilty. Once in awhile one of them will get off. A lot of people coming over the border in Arizona are indigenous people from Mexico and Central America with no Spanish language skills. And this lawyer that I met with his people they just getting dismissed because there is no adequate interpreter therefore you can't try a person when you don't have a language interpreter so they just let them go. So you know it is a shocking thing for an american citizen witness federal court house at 1:30. 80 people are marched in in chains, they're chained hand and foot, they really smell, they've been picked up in the desert, they haven't had access to a shower in three days, their clothes are dusty, and they all shuffle in, they can't really walk very well and. Of interest is anybody in the court room is not allowed to smile at them or encourage them in any way. I was with a group of people that got yelled at by the marshalls. They would throw you out. People would sort of smile. A lot of activists go just to say, we support you. But, you get throw out if you try to Any kind of facial expression towards them. So the judge is setup the front and they go up in their chains in groups of ten. And the judge will it, it's like an incantation, Jose Romero you were arrested on July 25th crossing the border in the valleys. Had been plead in They only say [foreign]. That's the spanish word for guilty. It's quite a spectacle. It's called rough justice or quick justice. It doesn't feel like a real hearing. They all invariably plead Guilty and then they were takin to a prison not a detention center because they've been convicted of a crime. One thing this does is now they have a criminal conviction on their record. Okay say they serve their time 90 days, their dumped back across the border in Mexico, They're are gonna try back again because maybe their families up in Phoenix. Well, that's a felony. If you come back after a deportation, you're already a criminal now. You've been criminalized for crossing the border, so it makes your situation that much more difficult if you try to come back. It's a very expensive program. You have to pay all those lawyers, you have to then imprison all the people. But I understand that that was one of the things that Trump thought was a very good plan that we should do this across the board. And any person being crop by border patrol to go through a similar hearing and we can only imagine the cost Of that program if we did in fact imprison all the people coming across. So it's really if anybody ever gets the opportunity to watch it, it's kind of a shocking thing to see in the United States. &gt;&gt; I'm going to sort of bring this to a conclusion because lunch is about to be served but I want to sort of wrap up by &gt;&gt; Thanking both of you for participating. I think this was an outstanding, I think you presentations were great. &gt;&gt; Mm-hm. &gt;&gt; I encourage you to buy the books and read them. You'll learn an awful lot about the kinds of things that we were talking about. I'll maybe leave you guys up here a little bit. If you any of you wanna come up and introduce yourselves, or meet the authors for a couple minutes, feel free to. Otherwise thank you very much, and I wanna thank both of you. &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] &gt;&gt; Thank you. 