https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idzycUXLuUE 
12:44
```
ingest          vt. 摄取；咽下；吸收；接待  
conceal         v. 隐匿，隐藏；隐瞒（真实感情或真相）；遮盖，遮住    
irritate        v. 使不耐烦，激怒；刺激（身体某部位），使疼痛；使（生物体、细胞或器官）兴奋；引起不愉快 vi. 引起恼怒，引起不愉快
humane          adj. 人道的，仁慈的；（学科分支）人文的，高尚的
inhumane        adj. 残忍的；无人情味的
lapse           n. 小错；过失；行为失检  v. （时间）流逝；（合同）终止；背弃（宗教信仰）
aquarium        n. 水族馆；养鱼缸；水族箱
deceptive       adj. 欺骗性的，造成假象的
luster          n. [光] 光泽；光彩
affection       n. 喜爱，关爱；爱恋，爱慕之情；精神状况，感情；疾患，病；影响
insidious       adj. 阴险的；隐伏的；暗中为害的；狡猾的  
abdomen         n. 腹部；下腹；腹腔
afflict         vt. 折磨；使痛苦；使苦恼
nausea          n. 恶心，晕船；极端的憎恶
adversary       n. 敌手，对手
albeit          conj. 虽然，尽管  
maim            vt. 使残废    
burrow          v. 掘地洞，挖地道 ；偎依，钻到……下面；（在……里）搜寻；挖穿
induce          v. 引诱，诱使；引起，导致；给（孕妇）引产，（用药物）催生；归纳出
inflict         v. 使遭受，使承受
blow  
provoke         v. 激起，引起；激励，刺激；挑衅，激怒
freak           n. 怪人，怪事；畸形人；反复无常
endanger        v. 使处于险境，危及
renowned        adj. 有名望的，著名的
aquatic         adj. 水生的；水栖的；在水中或水面进行的
entry  
warrant         n. （法院授予警方采取行动的）令状，授权令；（思考、决定或做某事的）正当理由，依据；（接受款项、服务等的）凭单，许可证；（财政）认股权证；准尉委任书
peril           n. 危险；冒险
nasty           adj. 恶毒的，凶相的；令人不快的，令人厌恶的；（伤口、疾病等）严重的，恶性的；污秽的，下流的；（外表）丑陋的，（气味等）难闻的；造成很大伤害的；令人担忧的，难对付的；有威胁性的，吓人的    
subside         vi. 平息；减弱；沉淀；坐下
hazard          n. 危险，危害；（不可避免的）风险；（高尔夫球道）障碍物（如池塘或沙地）；<文>机会，机遇；双骰子游戏；（网球）可得分区域；（台球）使球触他球后落入袋中的一击
constitute      v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命
allege          vt. 宣称，断言；提出……作为理由  
venomous        adj. 有毒的；恶毒的；分泌毒液的；怨恨的  
```

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Pets of all kinds — some familiar, some bizarre — are treasured companions and `curiosities` for animal `aficionados`. Yet living with other species poses risks. Pets can kill or `maim` in bizarre and unexpected ways. We’re not talking dog bites; we are talking `lethal` lizards, `arthropod` attacks, hamster `hazards`, freak fish tank infections, parasite `rampages`, and chlamydia death by `cockatiel`. 

10. Parrot Fever
Cockatiels and other small parrot family members are popular pets. But birds kept as pets can carry `nasty` diseases, and in one notorious case a death `alleged` to have come from a pet store-purchased cockatiel led to a lawsuit. The cause? A type of chlamydia (`albeit` an `avian` one) transmissible to humans and, in rarer cases, from an infected human to a non-infected human. Transmission may take place by “kissing” a bird, breathing dropping-derived particles, or from simply handling the bird. Parrot Fever is rare, with less than 10 cases of the disease occurring in the United States annually from 2010 `onward`. The disease-causing organism is genetically related to the common type of chlamydia notorious as a sexually transmitted disease passable between humans, but is a different organism, known as Chlamydia psittaci. Symptoms of parrot fever in affected humans include fever, coughing, chills, muscle weakness, `diarrhea`, `nausea`, and exhaustion. Bird symptoms include weight loss, discharges, dropping color changes and `lethargy`. While parrots are famous as potential transmitters of the disease, other types of birds may also carry the infection including ducks, chickens, turkeys, pigeons and `songbirds`. Cases mostly occurring where large numbers of birds are being reared for food, eggs or kept as pets. The disease is known from countries as far apart as Australia and England, but is more common in the tropics. 

9. Fish Tank Infections 
Doing some maintenance on an aquarium? Nicked yourself on the tank frame in the process? Might be up for losing a finger or worse, in extreme cases. Fish tanks can contain a wide variety of `pathogens`, and open cuts or `scratches` can be cause for a nasty infection. Mycobacterium `marinum` infections can cause `horrific` symptoms, as one teen discovered after cutting her hand in a fish tank. Chronic infection, surgery, and spread of infection into deep tissue resulted from this cut. Amputations may result in the worst cases. The bacteria can be best avoided by first making sure there is no open wound or cut on your hand, and second, washing your hands very well after any `aquarium` maintenance or contact with the fish. Furthermore, be sure as a fishkeeper to never mix household `utensils` with aquarium maintenance gear, or to suck on a `siphon` when changing the water. Another threat posed to the careless `aquarist` is the chance of `salmonella` exposure from actual fish and also other popular `aquatic` life, such as newts or `aquatic` reptiles. The disease can lead to severe gastrointestinal symptoms and even death. 

8. `Tarantula` Hair Shooting. 
Are you thinking a `tarantula` would look cool? Well, it’s not about just avoiding a bite. The enormous `arachnids` may constitute the spider world’s answer to King Kong, but their venomous capabilities are often overrated while a more `insidious` danger posed by the animals is frequently overlooked. You might even have trouble looking at the tarantula after an attack of flying hair. No, porcupines do not “shoot” their `quills`, but tarantulas can shoot their sharp hairs, potentially causing serious eye injuries. Tarantula bodies are covered in fine hairs, with the hairs on their huge, `bulbous` `abdomens` known as setae being tipped with pain-inducing barbs. Upon an encounter with an `adversary`, which could simply be an insufficiently trained animal handler, the `irate` tarantula can use its legs to `flick` the `abdomen` hairs into the “victim” in one of the most `dextrous` types of combat used by any animals. Alternatively, tarantulas may simply rub their belly up against the target, pushing the harpoon-like hairs into the flesh of the enemy. Handlers may suffer pain in the hands, but the worst cases involve some nasty eye symptoms arising from the presence of multiple mini-harpoons being `jabbed` into the eyeballs, having to be removed by doctors using tweezers. 

7. `Hamster` Bites. 
Hamsters are incredibly popular small pets, resembling a small bear but related closely to mouse and gerbil species. Syrian Hamsters, a larger species, are the most popular, while Russian Dwarf Hamsters and Chinese Hamsters are also sometimes kept. When disturbed, hamsters can `inflict` a nasty bite with their `incisor` teeth, potentially leading to `numerous medical complications`. Hamster bites have been known to trigger fatal allergic reactions in the form of `anaphylaxis`, a problem facing a small but still concerning number of hamster owners. In one especially sad case, a former policewoman and mother of three children from Singapore died when one of two fighting hamsters bit her as she tried to break up the conflict. She quickly experienced pain and numbness, then `lapsed` into a coma and later died despite six days of medical attention. Additionally, cases of the infectious disease Tularemia, alternatively called rabbit fever or deer fly fever, have been reported from exposure to hamsters carrying the infectious bacteria. Symptoms include eye inflammation, `lymph` node swelling, skin `irritation`, and lung problems. Clearly, the ability of hamsters to bite and the risk of either allergy or infection `warrants` care, not `complacency` when dealing with these pets. 

6. Pet Primate Horrors. 
Granted, monkeys and apes are our closest living relatives, given that us humans ourselves count as a primate species. One might therefore be forgiven for assuming that other species of primates would make ideal companion animals. You know, instead of a dog, something even more like us. However, not only are many species of primates endangered, they pose catastrophic risks of infection and physically violent conflicts with humans in home care, or rather, captivity. Macaques, a popular smaller monkey type, may carry Herpes B, a terrifying cousin of the familiar cold sore virus that is able to kill a human. Infection may set in after a `macaque` bite, or even a mere scratch from a monkey. Scarier yet is you cannot know for sure if your macaque is a carrier of the deadly Herpes B virus, as negative test results are sometimes inaccurate. Zoos have to treat all macaques as potential carriers. Due to the dangers posed by primates to humans, the United States has banned primate imports for the pet trade since 1975. Still, that doesn’t mean people have stopped sourcing animals already imported or bred in captivity for other purposes at their own risk. Physical attacks by monkeys may cause owners to inhumanely remove the animal’s teeth, while aggression from non-human apes like Chimpanzees, the larger relatives of monkeys, has led to `horrendous` incidents like the attack on Charla Nash by her friend’s chimpanzee in 2002.
 
5. Stabbed, Sliced, and Diced. 
Goldfish, guppies, and betta fish may all be extremely safe pets, but did you know that quite a few of the little fish you see in aquarium shops and home tanks could never come close to biting you but still leave you running for the emergency room? That is because a number of the most beautiful small tropical fish available are concealed-carry `dagger` masters. They hide their razor sharp bony knives in the strangest places, while other fish surreptitiously swim around with a venom-bearing hypodermic needle of sorts on their back, ready to sting like a wasp or scorpion. Clown Loaches are ever popular freshwater aquarium fish but beneath their eyes lie folding, extremely sharp, knife-like bony blades. If ` `, the animals can slice into your hand and cause a nasty injury. In the case of tangs — the colorful, roughly disk-shaped tropical fish — they can inflict a nasty cut with sharp bony blades located near their tail fins. If that wasn’t enough, a wide variety of aquarium catfish possess venom-bearing spines in their fins that may `inflict` a nasty sting should you be careless enough to pick them up without a fish net. 

4. Cat Scratch Fever. 
Cat scratches may be painful, but the resulting infection could send you to the hospital. These popular tiny relatives of tigers and lions are carriers of Bartonella henselae bacteria, which causes the illness popularly termed “cat scratch fever.” The `affliction` presents as a cluster of symptoms that may include `blistering`, exhaustion, headaches, lymphatic swelling, fever, weight loss, and a `sore` throat. The disease is far from harmless and it is surprisingly `prevalent`. The CDC states that around 12,000 people are estimated to contract the condition yearly. Of those 12,000, about 500 sufferers end up in the hospital. Antibiotics may be required `in cases prone to complications`, while lymphatic swelling may take a year to go down. Severe complications, while less common, are nonetheless horrendous. These scary problems include encephalopathy, which can bring about permanent damage to the brain or death following a bacterial invasion of the brain, neuroretinitis, which blurs vision, but subsides in most cases with time, and osteomyelitis. This horrible complication consists of bacterial bone infection, which may require `amputation` of affected parts. Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome may result from Bartonella henselae bacteria entry into the eyes, requiring surgical removal of infected eye tissue on occasion. 

3. Pet Snail Perils. 
Snails may be slow, but their popularity is quickly rising. The slow snail is also a pet that may land you in a sticky medical situation not-so-slowly. When choosing a pet snail, you have your choice of marine, terrestrial, or freshwater gastropods, as snails are technically called. Snails can range from the minute to the enormous, just like the diverse array of parasites they can carry. Eating freshwater snails can cause schistosomiasis, an exceptionally dangerous disease also known as snail fever, caused when humans are `parasitized` by `flatworms`, or flukes in the genus schistosoma. Large outbreaks worldwide are responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths, making it the second deadliest tropical disease after `malaria`. Infection occurs when infectious larvae enter human skin, then cause internal damage. Many cases have occurred in China following Yangtze River flooding. Terrestrial snails like Giant African Land Snails or Roman Snails may be viewed as good, easy starter pets for children or curious hobbyists, but if a child ingests a small snail — an easy occurrence — rat lungworm infection may result as the mollusks are hosts for these grotesque parasites. Perhaps most terrifying of all, the rat lungworms can `burrow` into the spinal cord and brain, potentially causing paralysis or death. 

2. Amphibian Bites. 
OK. We get it. The unusual, the strange. In the search for something truly different, you opt not for a reptile, but an amphibian as an `exotic` pet. What could be more harmless and cute than a `salamander` or frog? Actually, while these creatures are indeed soft and `fragile` to the touch, many of the most popular pet species grow to a substantial size and are armed to the teeth, literally. Take the Pacman Frog, a popular and cartoonish little `terrarium` pet easily picked up at a pet shop near you. Though it can go in a 20-gallon tank, this creature is toothy, may bite your finger, and when it does, expect blood. Scientists have discovered that this mere frog bites down with 30 Newtons, or 6.6 pounds of force when it clamps its target. Moving on to salamanders, the deceptively eel-like Two-Toed Amphiuma — a huge, aquatic salamander sometimes mistakenly called a Congo Eel — poses a threat to the careless aquarist. Actually of American origin, native to the Southwestern States, the creature is the third largest salamander and capable of inflicting some very painful gashes when `provoked`. You would think a snake had gotten you. The same goes for species like the beautiful and renowned Tiger Salamander. The striped amphibian also packs quite a bite. If bitten, watch out for infections, and always be aware of salmonella when near amphibians. 

1. Oh Deer. 
Deer are `herbivores`. So what could go wrong if you decided not to have a friendly but potentially bite-inflicting dog on your property, opting instead for a small member of the Cervidae? A lot, it turns out. Deer won’t eat meat, but are aggressive for other reasons and may leave a naïve keeper as a ready meal for a `scavenger`. In a tragic Australian incident that happened in Wangaratta, close to Melbourne, a 47-year-old man named Paul McDonald was fatally roughed up by his pet deer, which he kept on the property he shared with his wife, who was also attacked after she came with her son in response to her husband’s screams. Police officers responded and shot the deer, which was described as a hybrid deer, the result of the mating of a Red Deer and a larger deer species, an Elk, also known as a Wapiti. The main dangers from a deer attack do not come from bites, instead being presented by the mass of the animal and concentrated force delivered by blows from the hoofs and sharply-pointed antler racks. The territorial nature of deer and unpredictable behavior of these animals makes them questionable choices as a pet. 