https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aOW7JZaqKGA
17:04
```
ample               adj. 充足的，充裕的；丰满的；宽敞的，巨大的
odds                n. （事物发生的）可能性，机会；困难，不利条件；投注赔率；（力量、权力或资源上的）优势
transition          n. 过渡，转变；（分子生物）转换；（乐）临时转调；（物理）跃迁，转变
fuse                n. 保险丝，熔丝；导火线，引信   
sane                adj. 心智健全的，头脑清醒的；明智的
rigid               adj. （方法、体制等）严格死板的，僵化的；（人）顽固的，不通融的；刚硬的，不易弯曲的；（因强烈的感情而）僵硬的，僵直的；精确的
strain              n. 焦虑，紧张；负担，紧张；张力，压力；损伤，扭伤；品种，类型；气质，个性特点；旋律，曲调；口吻，语气；（物理）应变，胁变；血缘；困难，负担
depreciation        n. 贬值，跌价；贬低，轻视
spotlight           n. 聚光灯，反光灯；媒体和公众的注意；聚光灯照明圈
deter               v. 使打消念头，防止    
spur                n. 一时冲动之下，心血来潮；刺激，激励；山嘴，尖坡；（公路或铁路的）支线，岔线；马刺，靴刺 v. 激励，鼓励；促进，加速，刺激（某事发生）；    
genuine             adj. 真正的，非伪造的；真诚的，真心的
constrain           v. 限制，约束；强迫，迫使
becoming            adj. 相配的；合适的；得体的
compose             v. 组成，构成；作曲；撰写（信、诗或演讲稿）；使镇静，使平静；为（照片、图像）构图；排版，排稿
blow  
provoke             v. 激起，引起；激励，刺激；挑衅，激怒
distortion          n. 歪曲，曲解；变形，失真
passive             adj. 消极的，被动的；被动语态的；（抵抗）非暴力的；（电路，装置）无源的；（金属）经表面钝化处理的，钝化的
authentic           adj. 原作的，真迹的；传统的，正宗的；逼真的，仿真的；真实的，可靠的  
prospect            n. 可能性，希望；预期，展望；（尤指事业的）成功机会，前景；有望成功的人，有前途的人；可能的顾客，潜在的主顾；<正式>（尤指从高处看到的）景象，景色；潜在矿藏或矿床  
melody              n. 主旋律，曲调；歌，曲子；婉转，悦耳【名】 （Melody）（英）梅洛迪（人名）
dedicate            v. 致力于，献身于；把（书、戏剧、音乐作品等）献给；为（建筑物或教堂）举行奉献（或落成）典礼
illusion            n. 错觉，幻觉；幻想，错误的观念
obsess              v. 使着迷；使心神不宁；挂牵，念念不忘
composite           adj. 合成的，复合的；（火车车厢）综合的；菊科的；（柱式）混合的
flaunt              vt. 炫耀，卖弄；无视，藐视
```

We are all hackers | Niamh Houston | TEDxWandsworth

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en Translator: Samara Gomes Reviewer: Nada Qanbar 

I'm one of these confusing millenials that's managed to making a living through a weird hobby. This hobby envolves making music on retro consoles and machines something known as `Chiptune`. With very little experience I learned to compose through programming or hacking this, a Nintendo Gameboy using a piece of homebrew software called LSDJ or Little Sound DJ. This allows me to treat the Gameboy as if it's a very basic synthesizer. So I can command it to generate a tone, which I can then craft into something that resembles a traditional instrument like a kick drum or a bassline. With those instruments I'd create a song. But it's a Gameboy right? That chippy sound is probably something that you remember from your childhood or from when you were younger What you can do with it in music making is incredibly limited and yet you can create an array of signs. 

These limitations force you to think very differently and to approach creation in an entirely new light. As soon as I came across this scene, I was hooked and with only a `novice` knowledge on how to make music let alone make music on a Gameboy, I started to play with it see what it could do and what I could do with it. I technically became a hacker. But it wasn't just me there was an entire collective of people from all over the world dedicated to cracking the capabilities of this tech. some on Commodore 64's or Amiga's or Atari's. They were hacking their toys to make music and digital art. They were hackers with a "Do It Yourself" attitude, expressing individualism through these machines and forming an online movement to bring 'bedroom consoles' to the stage in front of live audiences. We had this ability to discover, create and share in the newly connected world, the Digital Era which was born of this concept of the hacker ethic. Something that's completely at odds with the rigid practices of the Industrial Era. Ours was one of openness, creativity through computers and the prospect of a better world using technology and with it there came a sense that anyone could be a hacker. So when I say hacker it's probably not too difficult to imagine the stereotypical hooded figure maybe a cyber terrorist of some sort or maybe the guy fox mask comes to mind. But it used to be that a hacker was an expert or an enthusiast of any kind. Someone who was inquisitive and passionate and found enjoyment in exploring especially within technology. So with that description surely any one of us could be a hacker. 

I mean, it's in our nature to be `inquisitive` and curious. We're all curious with our technology in one way or another because I'm sure that each and everyone of us myself included is guilty of sitting up until 3 am in the morning in the depths of YouTube or Facebook or Instagram or whatever knowing that you have to be up early but hey the Internet is that gift that just keeps giving. But before we had these pocket sized super computers hackers would be known to explore their machines, crack them open, see how they work, what makes them tick. If they didn't have something that worked for them they'd just make it themselves. Make their own software or build their own machines. If they hadn't, the names Steve Jobs or Steve Wozniak would be meaningless to us. We wouldn't even have personal computers, let alone our smartphones and tablets. The first home computers were built with the radical vision of the future that everyone should own a personal computer. And this spurred generations of inquisitive creatives to `recalibrate` those very machines, and to repurpose them into something that they were never intended to be. Like me with this Gameboy, for example. This hacker activity was known to be joyful where overcoming problems arised genuine curiosity and led to a want for more knowledge. Solutions would be deemed to have hacker value if they were executed with cleverness, brilliance or `finesse`. And this made creativity an essential part of meaning. 

Curiosity is the crocs of creativity afterall and it's in our nature to be creative. So I was blown away by this idea that you could make music on a Gameboy and I'm sure that some of you today probably are as well. So at 16, I got myself kitted out. I dug out the old classic Gameboy from the depths of the toy cupboard, dusted it off and revived it with some fresh batteries. My LSDJ cartridge arrived and before I'd even gotten past the first few pages of the manual I was eagerly making some noise. I was determined to just make something and before I knew it, I had some songs. They were not good songs. They certainly weren't without heart but I was very overenthusiastic with melodies and didn't have much sense of rhythm for it to feel like it was anything but they were mine, they were my own little creations crafted from nothing and I was proud of that. So I put them online and I awaited the email from Sony Records. But alas, no email! But I didn't need a lable it was the spirit of the Digital Age, I could just put them out into the world online and hope that someone out there somewhere might be interested in listening. And they were! Thankfully. Chiptune had it's own community of visualists, artists, event promoters and fans spread out all over the globe. So eventually I got to travel, I met incredibly talented like minded individuals and this all gave me the confidence to actually pursue a life of music, to continue exploring, and to follow my own path. It gave me this "Do It Yourself" attitude that really stuck with me. And approaching music composition with these constraints gave me almost a programmer's mindset. The writing process often provoked `serendipity`, there would be little happy accidents that would give birth to a new idea. And that kept the creative flow forever interesting and refreshing. It was such a free means of self expression. There were no standards to be met to define its quality. And it was accessible. It forced me to to overcome limitations in a creative way. And that was no doubt an important life lesson. But overall it was just fun! And this essence of fun is rooted within that hacker ethic achieving unexpected results through playfully cracking a constraint. Before Chiptune, a movement surfaced in Europe in the late eightees called the Demo Scene. And it was probably the very first computer art subculture. It started out as what would probably now be any parent's nightmare, with a teenage boy, alone in his room with a computer. It's not what you're thinking! Instead making art. These computer obsessed teens started to `flaunt` their programming skills through pirating or cracking softwares, something we're quite familiar with today. And they'd share it with their friends or other computer enthusiasts. Eventually these things called 'demos' started to appear when you'd open the file. They wanted to flaunt their talent right? So they'd create these audiovisual presentations that had insane graphics and music for the time. Sometimes they'd even talk smack about other hacker groups presented for everyone to see like and early, but much more innocent and creative form of the demonic YouTube comment section. It got to the point where people didn't even care about the software anymore. They just wanted to see these demos, they were really impressive. So eventually individual creators would team up to compete with one another at these things called 'demo parties', where huge crowds would assemble to watch the results. Nerds! They'd compete like their lives depended on it, longing for that moment when `jaws` hit the floor and people were just absolutely blown away by what they'd achieved. But what was it all for? Why did they do this? 

Honestly, it was for the art, it was for that final product. There wasn't exactly that big prize money to be won and the parties weren't exactly big budget. So rather than focus on commercial gain they worked to the extremes that they did because they loved doing it, it was fun! And like Chiptune, the musical love letter to the demo scene, this movement was dedicated to cracking constraints and breaking boundaries. They were making things with computers that people did not believe to be possible at the time. And because of their desire to create some went on to form video game companies, or went into software development or animation, like Pixar. Something that they trained themselves to be. So I inadvertently became a video game composer through my weird hobby. Without really realizing the scope of it I had created a brand for myself as a teenager. Marketing was something that almost came naturally to us who grew up with the Internet. Because creating an Internet persona was as simple as setting up your very first embarrassing email address. And growing up I was raised to understand the value of money not as a goal in life, but as a necessity for survival. To make a living doing something that you love is the goal, right? And a hacker is not naïve. They understand that income is essential to have that freedom to create and to control your art. But this transition from simply playing to making a living was a complete shock to the system for me. I think as adults we start to become systematic thinkers. We're constantly stretching logic trying to find answers to things that might not necessarily have a logical outcome. We can end up valuing our own worth through keeping score, comparing ourself to others, something that is very much the driving force in school through our grading system and this competitive nature we're told defines success. And teen years come with a natural swagger. An ego. And this can give us the belief that anything is possible. But with an ego in the driving seat for too long, we can end up with this distorted vision of reality. A world of self based on our own perceptions and illusions, however diminished or glorified. Where our understanding of our abilities is not what they are right now but rather what they should be in the future. And this can hold us back from moving forward. Or it can morph into overconfidence and arrogance sometimes coupled with the desire for fame or money, mimicking others or following trends to find the spotlight. But arrogance brings no contribution to your work. Nor does it inspire others. In fact, it has the opposite effect. I'm sure that maybe we've all experienced a feeling of anxiety, of treading water, self `depreciation`, trying to keep it all together. Sometimes the Digital Era can just set the bar so high that it's almost enough to stop you from even trying. But make no mistake, we are all born creative. Our academic studies may tell us otherwise, with such little focus on self discovery, creativity, and self advocacy. But we've been forever compared to one another in terms of our achievements and abilities. But comparison is the thief of joy, and any creator will know that all too well. That creative impulse is within all of us. Creativity comes from exploring and from being curious, doing what we could do and not what we should do. We're all eager to throw caution to the wind and go nuts with our imagination when we're kids but somewhere along the line this adult state of mind comes into play where we don't believe in ourselves to go against the grain. Through discovering Chiptune I felt like I stepped into a world of the unknown. One with all the right sites, and signs and people. It resonated with me on a much higher scale. Here was a community of novice or self taught artists, just like the Demo Scene. A breeding ground for self expression, raw unedited talent without... with unfiltered emotion. And there was something incredibly beautiful about that. Tiny machines making huge sounds. I instantly fell in love with it. And the scene had an attitude, it didn't care what you thought. It was playfully wild and free, creatively beautiful in its own rights. Where having fun and dismissing standards was the focus. Each one of us had taken a... had resonated with this movement in one way or another, and taken upon ourselves to join in, to push the limits of our creativity. And our artistic expression should be about absorbing life, our hopes, our aspirations, our fears, and creating something with it. There's a therapeutic value in creation. We can make sense of those emotions through giving them an entity. The limitation that we must crack is to overcome what stops us from getting creative or having fun with it. It's the essence of the Digital Era, where hackability is to participate instead of being a passive consumer. We can invent the future that we want and not the one that we're given. So instead of staying up all night passively consuming, find your community or the people that will help you grow. Approach creation with wonder, determination, curiosity, and create for yourself. You'll never know what will come of it. But above all, strive for authenticity, where the goal is not for money or fame or you will probably become lost. Find a bigger meaning, whatever it may be. Do it for yourself. Be a hacker and take that first step into the unknown. Thank you. 