https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRGTTp2j3SM

8:03

```
corpulent    adj. 肥胖的
rampant      adj. 猖獗的；蔓延的；狂暴的；奔放的
obscure      adj. 昏暗的，朦胧的；晦涩的，不清楚的；隐蔽的；不著名的，无名的
finale       n. 结局；终曲；最后一场；最后乐章；尾声  
accuse    
implication    
hilarious  
anticipate  v. 预料，预期；预见，预计（并做准备）； 期盼，期望； 先于……做，早于……行动；在期限内履行（义务），偿还（债务）；提前使用
intimidate    
gross    
devise      vt. 设计；想出；发明；图谋；遗赠给
pitch  
dedicate    
```

The 9 Most Obscure Archer References

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en (upbeat drum music)  

For nearly a decade now,  Archer has been the smartest comedy on TV. Now you might not think so between its joking sex robot, its holographic anime brides, rampant alcoholism and often ineffective spy craft. But hidden between its hilariously over-the-top antics are some of the smartest, weirdest and most obscure references you'll find in any piece of TV. So in honor of Archer: Danger Island season finale, and given that it's the show ninth season, on today's episode of The Dan Cave, I'm gonna run down nine of the most obscure references in Archer history.  Bartleby the Scrivener, one of Archer's best literary  deep contexts from way back  in the season one episode "Scorpio". When the corpulent arms dealer Spiridon Scorpio commands Archer to bring chocolate to a threesome with himself and Lana, the superspy replies plainly, "I'd prefer not to." Now you might be having a flashback to high school English because that's the infamous catchphrase of Herman Melville's Bartleby the Scrivener who would say the same thing when asked to do any number of unsavory tasks. But then again, no one asked Bartleby about a chocolate threesome but who can say if that would have changed his tune. Prude. Not a big Melville crowd here, huh.  The Destruction of Sennacherib Now not only is Pam proving handy with a dolphin puppet in resolving interpersonal conflict but she can beat the ever loving crap out of you as well and even more intimidating than her hand to hand combat skills is the fact that she has the third stanza of Lord Byron's poem, The Destruction of Sennacherib tattooed on her back. Now most people opt for like two dragons smooching or a glorious phoenix like Ben Affleck or the Monster Energy drink logo. But not Pam, as we learn in season two's "El Sequestro", she prefers a poem about an Assyrian gang trying to capture Jerusalem. What? Were you expecting Don Juan? (laughter) How pedestrian?  Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God When Archer was so unspeakably hungover in season three's "Crossing Over" that he needed an entire pitcher of Bloody Mary's to make his head stop pounding, he was perhaps at his most relatable but unlike the majority of us when we're hungover Archer actually had the wherewithal to quote a sermon from 1741 by British theologian, Jonathan Edwards. Now personally speaking, I prefer Archer's prayer mainly because a gigantic pitcher of Bloody Mary's is my platonic ideal of a great awakening. Amen.  The Sirens of Titan Remember in season four when Archer had to travel to Morocco to help extract a secret agent, only to find out that he was a little boy dog. Well, that dog, Kazak the English mastiff is a certified pure breed in terms of literary credentials. He's named in honor of Kazak the space faring dog from Kurt Vonnegut's novel, The Sirens of Titan. Now someone must have double dog dared Adam Reed and Mike Arnold to make double the obscure dog references because the episode itself, "Un Chien Tangerine" which means a tangerine dog is a reference to surrealist film maker Louis Bouniel's 1929 short film, Un Chien Andalou which means an Andalusian dog. Thankfully though this episode contains far fewer instances of razor blades slicing into human eyeballs because yikes, it is hard to watch! Did a PowerPoint on that back in high school Spanish, look at me now Senor Benagi.  Johnny Bench Called  One of Archer's most delightful deep cuts happened in the show's very first episode. Archer tells his mother, Mallory, that Johnny Bench called then trails off, now Johnny Bench is a Hall of Fame catcher who played for the Cincinnati Reds and had famously large fingers that let him hold up to seven baseballs at once. The implications that Archer's next line would be, "He wants his mitt back." which is to suggest that his mother's lady parts are akin to a gigantic well-worn catcher's mitt. It also paved the way for Archer to refer to Lana as Johnny Bench in "Fingers of You" episode later. It's also just straight up gross. Ugh.  Alphonse Bertillon In the season seven episode, "The Handoff", Cheryl wants to burn a cashier's check but Cyril wards her off noting that it could have fingerprints on it. In response Cheryl shoots back, "Well who am I, Alphonse Bertillon?" Well, you'd be forgiven if that sails right over your head because Bertillon was a 19th century French police officer who created a technique known as anthropometry which was the first scientific system of identifying criminals based on their physical measurements. It was later replaced by fingerprinting and also Bertillon invented the mugshot which is something I'm pretty sure 95% of the Archer gang has in spades.  P.G. Wodehouse  Now one of Archer's sneakiest references  is actually hiding in plain sight. Archer's trusty mistreated heroin and jazz-addled butler, Wodehouse. His name is actually a sly reference to a series of stories by English author P.G. Wodehouse about a highly capable valet named Jeeves who serves an incredibly wealthy man named Wooster. In these stories, Jeeves has to rescue Wooster from putting his foot in his mouth at every conceivable turn much like Wodehouse must help Archer out from all manner of unsavory situations. Except unlike Jeeves, Wodehouse stands an exponentially higher risk of getting straight up murdered or being threatened with coarse grain sand. I don't know if they grate it but, coarse.  Emile Zola  How would you like to be remembered when you die?  Something tells me that French novelist and journalist,  Emile Zola, didn't anticipate being turned  into a hamburger pun yet that's exactly what happened to the literary giant in season four's "Fugan Riffs". Believing himself to be Bob Belcher, Archer devised a deliciously cheesy Emile gorgon-Zola burger served with Jacques-cumbers. The topping itself being a reference to Zola's famous 1898 letter, Jacques, which he published to accuse the French government of antisemitism in the wake of unlawfully imprisoning Albert Dreyfus. The only thing we can accuse Archer of though is thinking that Gorgonzola and cucumber is a winning burger combination. What are you doing?  Peter Abelard and Heloise d'Argenteuil When Archer awakens from a drunken one night stand with a French flight attendant in the show's very first episode, he finds a pug in his apartment which violates Archer's strict no-dogs rule. Now Abelard's name is actually a joke nestled within a series of jokes all leading back to anal sex. When the woman tells Archer that she's hungry, he tells her to go to the diner because she's obviously into Greek. Now this is a double entendre because Greek was a slang term for anal sex referencing its popularity in Ancient Greece. Her dog Abelard is named for a medieval French philosopher who dedicated his life to studying Greek thinkers. Now according to a user on Reddit, J.R. Hugh, this joke goes even deeper, Abelard famously had a romance with a younger working class woman named Heloise d'Argentuil much like Heloise, this flight attendant is a younger working class woman who loves her Abelard. But wait, there's more. Not only was Heloise a scholar in her own right but wait for it she was fluent in Greek and thus much like life, it all comes back to butt sex. And those are some of the most obscure references in Archer's story and history. But tell me which one's your favorite, what would you add to this list? Let me know in the comments below and give me a highly obscure thumbs-up while you're there. Now be sure to like, subscribe and hit the notification bill or else you might miss next week's show, all about seven masterless samurai who come to a seaside town where four young friends are being stalked by a hook wielding maniac in Seven Samurai Know What You Did Last Summer. Until next time, keep on digging. (bells chiming) 