https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=35P_9MgxlQU 

13:59

```
spiritual      
facilitate  
odds  
incense  n. 香；奉承
exterminate  vt. 消灭；根除
justification  n. 正当理由，合理解释；证明为正当，辩护；齐行，整版；（上帝眼中的）称义
ardent       adj. 热情的；热心的；激烈的；燃烧般的  
holistic     adj. 整体的；全盘的      
inexplicable    adj. 费解的；无法说明的；不能解释的
malady          n. 弊病；疾病；腐败
finitude        n. 有限；界限；限制
afflict         vt. 折磨；使痛苦；使苦恼
harness    
inorganic       adj. [无化] 无机的；无生物的
pending  
impending       adj. 即将发生的；迫切的；悬挂的
mourning  
persevere       v. 锲而不舍，坚持不懈；固执己见（在辩论中）
purge           v. 清除（不愿有的情感）；消除（回忆、心情等）；清除（一群不受欢迎的人）；把某人从……上清除掉；弥补；将（某物）彻底清除；通便；净化；催吐   
manifest  
implication    
wreck  
hilarious  
annihilate       vt. 歼灭；战胜；废止
facility  
antagonist       n. 敌手；[解剖] 对抗肌；[生化] 拮抗物；反协同试剂
harmonious       adj. 和睦的，融洽的；悦耳的；和谐的，协调的
mastery  
regime  
pacify           vt. 使平静；安慰；平定
striking  
authentic        adj. 真正的，真实的；可信的
coincide    
harass  
harassment  
assert  
exodus           n. 大批的离去
epic  
indigenous  
urge  
```

The Philosophy of Final Fantasy – Wisecrack Edition 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Playing final fantasy is an exercise of love—but even the most ardent fans can agree: the plots are full of what in academiawe call ‘what the fuck’ type moments: Are all Cloud’s memories fake? Is that really how inter-dimensional time travel works? People might wonder: why is Sarah a crystal now? And my personal favorite...how is Tidus a dream? Not that he is dreaming, Tidus literally IS a dream...You know how many people have played a Final Fantasy game? A lot. You know how many can accurately recount the plot of one of these games? Very few. Despite needlessly convoluted storytelling, the thing that fans latch on to is the wonderfully complex characters and their personal struggles.Even though each installment introduces a new cast, there’s a significant amount of thematic overlap that ties these characters together and keeps the fans coming back for more. At its core, Final Fantasy is a series of games that explores the intricacies of dreams, desires, spiritual environmentalism and well... phantasy. I'm Jared, and this is final fantasy and psychology. On one level, Final fantasy is an exploration of the unconscious—it’s a jaunt into the world of dreams. There’s a difference between fantasy and the psychoanalytic concept of phantasy with a (ph). What we traditionally think of as fantasy is something like daydreams, wishes, or desires. Such as Vaan’s dreams of being a sky pirate in FF12 - or Cid dreaming of being an astronaut in FF7, or Terra dreaming of her past in FF6. Phantasy(with a ph) is the unconscious drives behind our actions that we are unaware of and throughout the series we often see physical manifestations of the unconscious. Tidus is always dreaming about how much he hates his alcoholic father, and in the same game Seymore makes the comment that he can smell the Farplane on Auron. The Farplane is a sort of literary allusion to the underworld or the dream world. In final fantasy six they literally visit the dream world, the land of the Espers, and fight the dream stooges: Larry, Curly, and Moe—who [beyond the three stooges reference] are sort of ironicstand ins for the id, ego, and superego. In Final Fantasy seven when Tifa and Cloud fall into the lifestream they enter clouds unconscious memories. In traditional psychoanalysis the analyst talks the patient through the process of naming their unconscious phantasies and attaching language to them so that they can work out their maladies and traumas. Encountering and working through trauma is one of the defining themes of the Final Fantasy games. FF characters always have a ton of psychological baggage. Cyan is tasked with seeing his family on the phantom train that carries the dead to the other side. Cloud goes through a whole wreck of trauma, between the loss of his friend, the burning of his hometown, and Hojo’s experiments messing with his memories, Cloud is basically broken... And his initial reaction to trauma isn’t the greatest. Zidanecracks when he finds out he is a genome—a “manufactured soulless being”...you know, In final fantasy ten spirits become vengeful if they can’t overcome the trauma of their death and Rex (from Final Fantasy twelve) is so shaken by surviving the murder of his family that he is institutionalized. Then there is the sorry case of Vivi, the saddest little scarecrow in blackface, in the history of gaming. His loss is not just the mourning of a friend or loved one—it is something akin to Freud’s discussion of melancholia, of a self directed sadness beyond object loss—what Vivi has lost can never be regained, the innocence of youth, of the belief in immortality. Vivi finds out that he is just a mass produced war doll with a shelf life of about a year. The mage is just sort of wakes up to consciousness—are thrown into the world like Frankenstein’s monster—disconnected from their creator and radically without purpose. This existential quagmire is a microcosm for the human condition, as finite beings we all grapple with the question: “what does it mean to be a being that will one day die?” How is he supposed to go on with this knowledge seems to be his central character arch and the hint is there, the name Vivi, is literally Italian for life: so the answer—find a way to live. One reaction to Trauma is also one of the best parts of Soap Operas: amnesia. The way soap operas write characters that they have killed back onto the show is pretty hilarious: no, your favorite soap hunk isn’t really dead, he has amnesia, or he is really his evil twin. I wish that Final Fantasy were different...I really wish that it was, going back over these games the most frequent plot hole fix: is of course, amnesia... In final Fantasy six, Terra can’t remember being an Esper and Rachel falls off of a bridge and loses her memories, in seven Cloud has all sorts of false memories, in Final Fantasy eight Selphie, Quistis, Seipher, Ellone, Zell, and Squallwere all somehow suppressing a memory of living in an orphanage together as kids. In Final Fantasy nine Fratley is suffering from amnesia, Garnett forgot a giant eye in the sky that destroyed her city, and Fang has in final fantasy thirteen also has amnesia. But none of this compares to Tidus, yeah we are going there again, what the fuck? Tidus doesn’t just have amnesia, he has forgotten that he isn’t a real boy, he is actually...a dream. I’m sorry, I just can’t get over this. When people think of the “Fantasy” element of Final Fantasy they often think of something like LAARPING and the magic that gives it the fantasy feel. But lest we forget that some are decidedly sci-fi, the real phantasy that binds these games is a struggle with trauma. While each big boss has an interesting justification for their actions—most also act as a response to trauma. Looking for a way to explain the motivation of soldiers returning from world war I, afflicted with motivation that was inexplicable using his drives based on Eros or sexuality—Freud coined the term: the Death Drive or Death Instinct... sometimes called Thanatos. The death drive is an instinct or a drive towards self destruction—it’s a desire to return to `inorganic` chemistry—where all desires are satisfied—it is a desire to be free of conflict or suffering. Kind of like curling up on a couch with some ice cream and Sherlock forever. This manifests in a desire either for self annihilation or apotheosis (a desire to transforminto a god), and much like Prometheus, Phaethon, or Icarus—cutting corners on a path to divinity doesn't usually end well. In Final Fantasy nine Kuja’s response to his `finitude` and inevitable `impending` death is: destroy all life with him, in one blaze of glory. In Final Fantasy seven Sephioroth is an abandoned and lonely soul that attempts to gain ultimate power by harnessing the lifestream of the planet by hitting it with a giant meteor. Many of these antagonists justify their actions from the perspective of negative utilitarianism. Unlike traditional utilitarianism that attempts to maximize happiness, negative utilitarianism is about minimizing suffering. And the surest way to insure that there is net less suffering forever is to quickly snuff out all life so that it can never suffer again. In Final Fantasy thirteen the Fal’C want to eliminate all disharmony and suffering by bringing back the maker to reestablish order and peace. In Final Fantasy ten, Seymour grew up with all of the suffering, taunting, and harassment of being a half-breed. So his solution? Help Sin destroy all of Spira to end all suffering on the planet. With all of the crystals in the final fantasy series, overlooking the new age spirituality would be a mistake, exemplified by shops that sell incense, wind chimes, Australian Didgeridoos, polished rocks, and a lot of crystals. The new age movement gained traction in the 1970’s and is an amalgam of spiritual beliefs that stressed holistic divinity and the interconnectedness of all life. While not necessarily related to New Age spirituality, The Gaia Hypothesis is similar in that it asserts that the earth is one harmonious living system—and disrupting that system has serious implications for everyone living on the Earth. Final Fantasy seems to take a lot of inspiration from the Gaia hypothesis. In Final Fantasy seven all life goes back to the planet as lifestream, in Final Fantasy twelve, nine, and seven the planet is aptly named Gaia. Whether it’s an evil corporation or a megalomaniac moving crystals or statues around—the games focus on balance with the environment. And as such, is full of environmentalist undertones. In seven Cloud is in cahoots with an environmental terrorist group that challenges the exploitative Shinra corporation. The Al Behd in final fantasy ten are the last users of machina(a type of technology)... whereas most of the world is anti technology. Sin is sort of like a mix between the Unabomber and the Sea Shepard...if they were a giant whale beast... thing. Its purpose for existence it to punish people for using technology. But to focus just on technology misses out on the root of the problem. Something more is going on than your usual captain planet, tree hugger affair. Final Fantasy seven tips it’s hat, with the introduction of a minor character: Heidegger. That’s right, The Notorious Martin, himself, the master of being and time makes an appearance as the head of public safety for the Shinra corporation. In his work "The Question of Technology? Martin Heidegger asks: what is the essence of Technology? Heidegger's answer: nothing technological-rather the drive to technology is based not in machines but in a particular type of thinking and seeing called enframing. Enframing renders the totality of the field of vision, or the earth, to bestand-or standing reserve, as matter simply waiting to be exploited for us. The way the Shinra Corporation merely sees lifestream as a means to make the profitable substance mako, or how Draklor laboratories artificially create nethicite, how the fal’C are enslaved to power the citiesof Cocoon or extracting magic from Espersare all examples of enframing. It stems from an in-authentic need to master and control the world—to settle the wilderness—to pacify the precocity of life by making everything needed ready at hand. However, —the urge to mastery doesn’t just end at objects. When humanity views life from the perspective of instrumentality, human beings themselves are seen as standing reserve—as materials, as a means to an end: it’s a form of objectification and subjugation. Throughout the entirety of the series there are odd parallels between the world and politics of Final Fantasy and the fascist, genocidal regimes of earth. A couple of shared elements might be a coincidence but Final fantasy four’s murderous antagonist is called Golbez, which bears a striking resemblance to the minister of propaganda for the Nazi Reich: Paul Joseph Goebbels. Jewish imagery is interspersed throughout the games: Sephiroth is close to Sephirot, the ten attributes of god. Final fantasy thirteen takes place under the backdrop of the relocation and mass execution of the l’cie called the purge... l’cie are a branded people chosen by Fal’c gods and final fantasy seven takes place under the guise that they will return to the promise land... complete with a Joseph Mengele like character in the maniacal Hojo. (Mengele, of course, was one of the Nazi doctors responsible for selecting people for the gas chambers and human experimentation in Auschwitz.) Experimentation and objectification is a constant theme in final fantasy. In 8, Edea is possessed by Ultimecia to help advance her mastetr plan to posses people in several time lines. Celeste is created through genetic engineering in final fantasy six. In final fantasy thirteen Cocoon is a giant production facility to create human thralls for the Fal’C and just like prison sex, Kuja does what is done to him, creating a production facility of black mage dolls as weapons that reflect his own empty puppet like existence as a genome. Also- trains. Final Fantasy six has the phantom train, final Fantasy seven has several trains, final Fantasy eight has the timber train, Final Fantasy nine has an air cab that is a sort of monorail, Final Fantasy twelve has abandoned railroad tracks everywhere and in Final Fantasy thirteen trains transport l’cie to their mass extermination. The role of railroads are significant given the history of their use for the acceleration of the mass exodus and elimination of people in Nazi Germany - and through facilitating the extermination of the native people of North America through the expansion of the western border into indigenous lands. Trainshave always been symbol of technological advancement—they stand as the archetype of the industrial revolution and manifest destiny. In Dostoyevsky's 'The Idiot', trains were even a symbol of the Antichrist. As a sort of bad omen trains are a reminder of the power of technology and the responsibility that comes with wielding immense power. Whether it be medieval times or space epics, in Final Fantasy, magic is treated pretty similar to technology and in some instances they are used interchangeably. It isn’t a question of technology or magic being bad in and of itself—the responsibility lies in hands that use the tools or cast the spells. Final Fantasy, in the end, is about the unbreakable human spirit, about overcoming impossible odds, of persevering when success seems like a pipe dream or fantasy—it’s about the power of friendship, love, and the transformative potential of hope... No one decides to sacrifice their lives in Final Fantasy ten—they all choose to accept a world of death, suffering, and pain. All the party members in Final Fantasy seven find a reason to fight for the planet, in Final Fantasy nine the party fights against Necron and asserts a will to live. Even angst filled Vivi finds the will to make little Vivi babies. In Final Fantasy six they respond to Kefka’s nihilism with “it’s the day to day concerns, personal victories, and the celebration of life and love...that matters.” 