https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XPDHY-jOQYA
10:29
```
bare            adj. 赤裸的；光秃秃的；无遮盖的，无装饰的；仅最基本的
slouch          n. 下垂；笨拙的人，懒散的人；懒散的样子
legible         adj. 清晰的；易读的；易辨认的
relentless      adj. 坚韧的，不屈不挠的；残酷无情的，不留情面的；不停的，不间断的
oppress         v. 压迫，欺压；使压抑，使烦恼；（纹章）使（图记）部分模糊
instill         vt. 徐徐滴入；逐渐灌输
upbringing      n. 教养；养育；抚育  
albeit          conj. 虽然，尽管  
bleak           adj. 阴冷的；荒凉的，无遮蔽的；黯淡的，无希望的；冷酷的；单调的  
circuit         n. 电路，回路；巡回活动，巡回地；环道，环线；赛车道；（英国）巡回审判区，巡回上诉法院；（一套）体操动作；统一经营的连锁剧院（或影院）  
tangible        adj. 明确的，真实的；可触摸的，可感知的
envision        v. 想象，预想
constitute      v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命
permeate        v. 渗透，弥漫，扩散；（观点、信念、感情等）充满，充斥  
```

Imaginative sculptures that explore how we `perceive` reality | Alicia Eggert

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

If you happened to be in the town of Lubec, Maine in July of 2016, you may have seen something a little curious on the horizon when you looked out across the bay. In the distance, on an otherwise uninhabited island, loomed large black letters that spelled the word "FOREVER." 

The sign was 15 feet tall and 50 feet wide, large enough so that on a clear day, you really could see "FOREVER," the word perfectly visible and legible in the distance. But on some days, a thick white fog would roll in off the ocean, erasing the word and the view altogether. And sometimes, like in this video, you could barely see "FOREVER" peeking out of the shifting fog, accompanied only by the rhythmic warning sounds of fog horns. (Sound of fog horn) (Sound of fog horn) 

It started out as a fairly simple idea, `albeit` a little strange, to put the word "FOREVER" in the landscape so it could appear and disappear in the fog. But it took over a year to plan and execute, and it required the help of so many people, like the `lobster` boat captain, who helped transport all of the materials to the island. And the volunteers, who helped carry thousands of pounds of wood and steel to the top of the hill through waist-high shrubs. And in the end, "FOREVER" only lasted for three weeks. (Laughter) So if you're wondering why I did it at all, as I often did during that process, it might help for you to know a little bit more about me and my upbringing. I grew up in an evangelical Christian family. And although I'm an atheist today, I've realized that my religious upbringing has played a really important role in shaping the person that I've become. In 1986, when I was five years old, my parents became missionaries to South Africa. And that was during the last few years of the `apartheid`, so we lived in an all-white neighborhood, and I attended an all-white public school, while my parents helped found a multiracial church in downtown Cape Town. Because I was so young, it was impossible for me to understand the magnitude of what was happening in South Africa at that time. I witnessed the racism and oppression of people of color I knew and loved on a daily basis, but because of my own skin color, there was no way I could fully comprehend it. But I had the privilege to experience, firsthand, one of the most influential social movements of the 20th century. And the thing that left a long-lasting impression on me was how the people I met in South Africa could envision a better future for themselves and their country. A future they really believed was possible. And then they worked together, relentlessly, for decades, until they achieved that extraordinary historic change. I was there to see Nelson Mandela released from prison, and I watched an entire country begin a major transformation. And that transformed me as a person. It instilled in me a sense of wonder and optimism and possibility that `permeates` everything I create. I make sculptures like "FOREVER" as a way of giving physical, tangible forms to language and time. Those powerful but invisible forces that shape the way we perceive and experience our realities. And in doing so, I try to give other people the opportunity to reflect on their own perception of reality and inspire them to wonder and imagine what else might be possible. I often use signs to do this, because of how simply and effectively they're able to grab our attention and communicate information. They often point out things we would otherwise overlook, like this sign on the side of the highway in Texas. [TEMPTATIONS] They can often signify things that we can't see at all, like the distance to our destination. Signs often help to orient us in the world [You are on an island] by telling us where we are now and what's happening in the present moment, but they can also help us zoom out, shift our perspective and get a glimpse of the bigger picture. Imagine, for example, you're walking down the street in Philadelphia. A city in the US that contains so much history, the birthplace of our `constitution`. But imagine you're walking down the street in an area that's undergoing a huge transformation due to `gentrification`. And as you walk down that street, you notice something flashing up above you. So you look up and you see this. A flashing neon sign that says "All the light you see is from the past," and then "All you see is past," before turning off completely for a brief moment. It asks you to stop and notice the history embedded in everything that you see. And it reminds you that because light takes time to travel across space, even from just across the street or across the room, everything you're seeing in the present moment is technically an image of the past. Signs influence the way we all navigate the world, which means they have the ability to create a collective experience or understanding. My time in South Africa taught me that when people are able to find common ground and work together towards a mutual goal, powerful things can happen and so much more becomes possible. And I want to create more opportunities for people to find that kind of common ground. I want people to feel the power of collaboration, sometimes quite literally. A few years ago, a friend of mine showed me how our bodies can safely conduct small amounts of electricity. And if you hold hands with another person, a small electrical current can pass through your held hands and become like a switch that can trigger something else to happen. So last year, I used that form of human connection to activate an inflatable sculpture. I put two sensors on a platform far enough apart so that one person can't make it work on their own. But when two or more people work together to complete that electrical circuit, the inflatable comes to life. And it begins to fill with air, and the longer people hold hands, the larger it becomes, expanding into the words "You are magic." (Music, birds chirping) I always love to see how each group of people finds a different way to bridge that physical and metaphorical divide. But as soon as they release their hands and break that connection, the words immediately begin to `slouch` and fall over and eventually return to `a lifeless pile of fabric` on the ground. (Applause) 

At this moment in time, I think we could all agree that the future feels pretty `bleak` and uncertain. But maybe the hope for a brighter, more sustainable, more `equitable` future depends first on our ability to imagine it. But after we imagine it, we actually have to believe it's possible. And then we have to find common ground with people we would maybe otherwise disagree with and work together towards that mutual goal. And if we do that, I believe we have the capacity for magic. So if you can humor me for one more minute, I'm going to ask everyone in this theater to hold hands. When was the last time you held hands with a stranger? (Laughter) And if you feel comfortable, go ahead and make that metaphorical gesture of reaching across the aisle. And after you've held hands with people on either side of you, if you feel comfortable, please close your eyes. Now take a minute to imagine what you want, what you want the future to look like. And give yourself permission to be at least a little bit idealistic. What do you want to see change or happen in your own life as an individual? What do you want to see change or happen for everyone, for the planet? Can you picture it? And can you start to see how, if we all worked together, it might actually be possible? Now open your eyes, and let's make it real. Thank you. (Applause) 