https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ98s0mb9AE

Kitty Lagareta | Long Story Short with Leslie Wilcox 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

You said you got in trouble a lot. Was that a trend that would continue later in your life? Well, I really try not to, but I tend to be a little bit outspoken, and I tend to have opinions about things, and I tend to get involved. And I think when you do all that, sometimes it looks like you're causing trouble. When you raise a question, or when you are outspoken, is it with the intent to shake things up? No; it really isn't. Sometimes it's just a question, or sometimes it's just wanting to delve a little deeper into understanding something. I'm kind of an introvert, actually, in my private time. I'm not looking to cause trouble. Kitty Lagareta is not one to back down from a challenge or hesitate to go against the grain. Honolulu business owner and operator, Kitty Lagareta, next on Long Story Short. Long Story Short with Leslie Wilcox is Hawaii's first weekly television program produced and broadcast in high definition. Aloha mai kakou. I'm Leslie Wilcox. Katherine Lagareta, better known as Kitty, joined the public relations firm Communications Pacific in 1986 as a junior account executive. Nine years later, she became its president and CEO. Kitty has always been a risk-taker, having grown up with teenaged parents who gave their children lots of independence. In small kid time, I grew up in the Mojave Desert in California. I was there from about the time I was eleven, twelve. And my parents still live there, so it's a place I go back to as home. And in those days, it was about five thousand people in this vast desert, and it was an amazing place to grow up. What did you for playtime in the desert? You know, rode motorcycles. I love motorcycles. I hardly wear dresses, 'cause I have all these motorcycle burns on my legs from falling on the tailpipe. But rode motorcycles, and chased lizards all the time. I can't even believe I did that, but we chased lizards and we caught things, and looked at 'em. And we played hide-and-seek on this vast desert. It's amazing to me how much time as kids we had, unstructured, alone, to explore or hang out with friends, where parents weren't hovering over us. Some of the best adventures are the ones that were misadventures. You lived in a place that may be considered more dangerous than others, because of the climate, where you could get lost, and there's too much heat in the desert. Yeah. You know, way out in the desert, you never know who's out there. And honestly, I was a very protective mom. My kids were born and raised here. I was a very protective mom, and I thought, You know, this would have never flown when I was a kid. But you know, it's the way it was, and I'm grateful for it. Were your parents people who explicitly gave you life lessons, or did they teach you by example? They always tried. My parents were very young; my parent were sixteen. My mother was sixteen when I was born, and so, it was kinda like ... there were times in my childhood where it was, which of us is raising which one? But I have wonderful parents; I adore them. They were very responsible parents, they were great parents. But no, they were not overprotective parents at all. And what of life did you grasp from them? You know, they always made me feel like I could do anything. You know, it was like, they gave me the freedom to make mistakes, take risks, do things that maybe were different or new, like ride motorcycles when you're twelve, thirteen years old on the desert. They kinda gave you the sense that the world may not be a perfectly safe place, but you can handle. And what were they like individually? They both came from sort of broken homes at a young age, and my dad grew up in Pennsylvania. When he was eleven, his dad left, and he has a much younger sister and his brother was an infant. And he kind of became the man of the house then. Very responsible, great values. He ended up going to trade school to become an engineer and had a very wonderful career, did very well over the years with that kind of vocational education. And when I was a kid, he was managing cement plants by then. That's why we were in the desert, because there was a large cement plant there that he managed. And then my mom, you know, had my sister two years later when she was eighteen, and then we adopted my two brothers, one when I was about twelve, thirteen, and one when I was about fifteen. So, no sibling rivalry there; they're so far apart in age. But think about it; she had toddlers and she had teenagers at the same time. That's got to have been a very difficult thing. And she was kind of a 50s, 60s mom. And she hadn't finished high school, 'cause she had me. And basically, she got me into college when I was sixteen on this special program, 'cause she was so determined I would go to college as her oldest. And in the course of being counseled and all of that about my education, the counselor said to her, Where did you go to school? And she said, very embarrassed, I didn't finish high school. And that counselor, I think my mom is grateful to her, but I had to love that woman. I don't even know her anymore. She got my mom to start taking classes, take the GED test, and my mom got her master's in psychology. It took her a number of years, 'cause she went to a few classes at a time, but she had a great career as a clinical psychologist. And I'm really proud of her. Is that right? Yeah. When did you leave the desert? You know, the first time I left was, one summer I thought I was gonna go to school in Santa Barbara. That was the summer that they burned the bank, and then I went down to the beach. My apartment was on Sabado Tarde Road, this little road, and I loved this town. And everybody was playing naked volleyball, and so all it took was my Italian Catholic parents to come down and it was, You are out of here, you are so out of here. So then, I went back up to the community college, and met a boy from Hawaii. Grown up in Hawaii, not originally from Hawaii. And I had started college young; I had two years by the time I was eighteen. And he was a couple years older, and he was from Ewa Beach. And we got married when I was like, nineteen, and came here shortly thereafter. That's what brought you to Hawaii. Yeah; that's what brought me to Hawaii. The marriage lasted about thirteen years. We have two great sons from that marriage. And I think a lot of people thought after I got divorced, I would probably leave. Did you ever consider it? No; no. My kids' father and I wanted to have them in the same place together with us, so even though we were not together, it never occurred to me to go anywhere else. And I love this place; I felt at home here from almost the first moment. My first husband was kind of a hanai family member with Al Harrington and his family, and Al was a big entertainer when we first came over here, and he worked for him. So, we immediately kind of got into cultural things with him, a lot of the people in his show, native Hawaiian, a lot of the people were Samoan, Tongan. And we hung out with them a lot in those early years, and so, I kind of got exposed to different cultures almost immediately, and I loved it. Did you finish college at the University here? I did; I went back. I took a couple of years to just kinda get settled here, and then I had my second son, and then I went back to school. And then, he got spinal meningitis when he was eleven months old, and that took me on a journey. I thought I was gonna go to law school; that was my big goal, was to go to law school. And I was like, vice president of the pre-law society, and all of that. And after his hospitalization, I heard about the Ronald McDonald House and some people here were starting one, McDonald's and some community people. And that took my life in a whole different direction. Your second child had spinal meningitis, or bacterial ... Yeah; bacterial spinal meningitis. He was born very, very healthy, big huge healthy baby, and I was one of those all natural childbirth and breast feed, and all that kinda stuff. So, when he got sick, we almost lost him, and he was in the pediatric intensive care for weeks at Kapiolani Hospital. And I really credit them, because the care was so good. There was another child with something similar, older child who died in the bed next to him. He was in a coma for almost a week, and it was a very scary, scary thing. He lost his hearing pretty much as a result, but that's not stopped him in any way. I can't imagine the fear of having your child in a hospital bed next to someone who passes away from the same thing. Yeah; it's terrible. It was like moment-by-moment, and you get through it with your child. That was absolutely the most horrendous, scary thing I've ever gone through in my life. How long did you go through it? It was several weeks. And then, he had a long recovery. And that's when you came across the concept of Ronald McDonald House? What happened was, there was a mom there from the Big Island, and she was a single mom, and they'd flown her over on a medvac. And I got to know her over a period of the first week or two. And I noticed she didn't have any clothes, she was kinda living on whatever she got at the vending machine. And as we got to talk, I realized she didn't have a place to stay. And then I kinda looked around, and I realized that a lot of neighbor island families, they rent a car and get an ice chest, 'cause they want to be real close to their kids. They were essentially living in the parking garage and kinda using the facilities at the hospital, but that was it. 'Cause you can't afford a hotel if your baby's in neonatal intensive care for months, or your child's in the hospital for weeks. Nobody can, and nobody wants to be that far away. So, I was concerned about it, and I went down and talked to the hospital administrator. He was very kind; he said, You know, we can't take care of all the parents; we'll try. If there's somebody special you think needs our assistance, we'll send up our social worker. But we use all our resources to take care of the kids. So, he remembered me, I guess, because a year later, he called me up and said, You know, you were so concerned about that; well, these people are having a meeting here, some people from McDonald's and some people from the community, and I think they want some parents who had kids in the hospital. And I think you should come down for this meeting. And I said, Okay. That meeting was the beginning of a new journey that took Kitty Lagareta into the world of fundraising. The efforts of the group were successful, and after the Ronald McDonald House opened, Kitty became its first staff member. While this experience eventually led to her future career in public relations, she pursued another interest; one that pushed the limits of risk-taking. She became a standup comic. Some friends of mine were auditioning for a comedy troupe that Rap Reiplinger was putting together. So, in the middle of that for a couple years, I did standup comedy with this group called Hats. And I was working on Ronald McDonald House during the day, and at night we would perform, and in between somewhere I would write stuff. It was a great adventure. What kind of comedy did you do? You know, it's very common now. You see a lot of kind of feminist comediennes, and they do some pretty risqué stuff. And that's exactly what I was. You know, I grew up as a tomboy and I cussed a lot. I didn't cuss in my monologue. I finally have tried to wean that out of my vocabulary. But it was edgy stuff. I did a whole thing on masturbation; a whole monologue on masturbation. Personal subjects, and then to go in front of a whole bunch of people ... didn't it frighten you? Well, for me, it was a weird plaything. It was, Do women do it, or not? We only hear about men. Is that because they have language to describe it, and we don't have any? And so, the whole thing was about what kind of language women should have to even talk about it, if they did it. And it kind of ... you had to be there. [LAUGHTER] And it got laughs, good laughs? It would bring the house down, once I especially got my rhythm. Rap loved it. And I remember my proudest moment, 'cause it was a very short career, was when we had a big review by Wayne Harada. And he said-I thought it was kind of a play on words; She talks about some very touchy subjects, but it's a display of astonishing wit. And I said, Okay, maybe this is something I can really do, because he said that. And you wrote your own lines. I wrote my own. It wasn't improv; it was something you wrote. We did some improv, Rap wrote some skits, but we were all responsible for our own monologues, and we wrote our own stuff. They say that's one of the scariest things to do, public speaking, especially when you're mining for laughs and people may not find it funny. You don't know. I think because Rap was there, and Rap was so brilliantly funny, and when we were trying out something new and it didn't quite click, he would mentor us and say, You know, that's actually a good piece. And he did that with all of us; there were eight of us. But here's what's not working; here's what would really make it work. Try this. And so, that gave us kind of a safety net, and he was almost every time right; but I wouldn't say he was right every time. And you'd go out there, and people would howl, and that was the most exhilarating feeling, ever. I bet. At what point did law school go off the table? Law school kinda went off my radar screen when I discovered that side of me that like to be creative. You know, I really think I would have loved to do comedy forever, but other things intervened, and living out here in Hawaii, it was kind of a small market for it. Rap kept trying to get us all to go to the mainland, and we actually had a couple of chances to do that. But it just never was the right time to do that. Did you think you'd found your profession at the Ronald McDonald House? I did. And the fundraising part of it is a skill I learned, that I use a lot still today in things I do, and the communications part. I was terrified; I was the client of the PR firm I now own, and I was terrified. What a switcheroo. I mean, you were the client of the public relations company you now own. Yes. And you hadn't gone to school for public relations or marketing. No; even though I guess I was doing a lot of it. I like to write, we did a million presentations. And you were an advocate. And an advocate. And the PR firm was supporting; I was the client again. When they offered me a job, 'cause the House went into a phase where they were looking for somebody to be there that was more social work background and all of that once it opened, and I totally understood that. And they offered me a job, and I said, So, what exactly do PR people do? And it was kinda like, Well, you've been doing it. I see. I was like thirty-two, and I started at a very junior account exec level. Usually, most of the people that age were vice presidents in the company, so I kinda started at square one, so it gave me time to learn everything. You got immersed almost immediately in meeting with people who were decision makers and influencers. When I look back on Ronald McDonald House, I was such a newbie to any of that kind of thing. And that experience, I always tell people, volunteering if you have a passion, even when you go into it [INDISTINCT] yourself, you have amazing experiences. And I sat in a room; Sully Sullivan was our fundraising chair, and I think he was probably about eighty then, or late seventies. And there was like Sheridan Ing, and Bill Wall, and Bobby Pfeiffer, and we'd all meet once a week for breakfast, and I was like the fly on the wall note-taker. And they'd do their fundraising reports really quick, and then they would stay around. And they always said, Oh, stay around, kid. And I'd listen to them talk about business stuff, and I don't even know if I fully appreciated it at the time, but years later, so many of the things that I heard by being in that group for a year or two, just fundamental stuff about business and the way people think, the way those types of people think, was brilliant. And I use it every day, I think. And it's an incredible memory when I think about it. That came through Ronald McDonald House. So, that 00:15:36.370 --> 00:15:37.