https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KIxXZa5Fwzc

```
moral  
discord  acord  
propel   
incentive  
extol  vt. 颂扬；赞美；赞颂
burgeon  vi. 萌芽, 发芽；迅速增长
compliment  n. 赞扬，称赞；问候，祝贺（compliments）    
pejorative  adj. 轻蔑的，贬损的；恶化的，变坏的
snatch    v. 一把抓起；夺去；抓紧时间做；反败为胜；（非正式）偷；急切地接受（邀请或机会）
prime     adj. 主要的；最好的；基本的  
venture  n. 风险项目，冒险事业；冒险旅行，冒险行动
deter  
pending  
fiscal  adj. （政府）财政的；<美>财政年度的；<美>金融的
embargo  
integrate  
dismantle  
tribute  
spur    
bureau    
preeminent      
merit  
genuine  
constrain    
expense  
accord  
stain  
eminent  
conceive  
entry  
subtle  
aura  
bust  
cling  
coincide  
ward  
profession  
monetary  
consequent    
industrious        
aggregate  
ingenuity     n. 心灵手巧，聪明才智，独创力；精巧的装置；灵活的方法
deduct  
predicament   n. 窘况，困境；状态
fault  
vantage     n. 优势；有利情况；有利地位    
```


WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en Kent: 

Good morning everybody. It's my honor to introduce Secretary Robert Reich to Google today. Secretary Reich, as I'm sure all of you know, served with three different administrations including most notably being Secretary of Labor in the Clinton Administration. In taking a look at some background notes, I saw that Time Magazine had named him one of the top ten cabinet members of the last century, which is pretty remarkable. Although as my wife told me this morning maybe not at remarkable as the fact that he actually dated Hillary Clinton before Bill did. [laughter] [applause] We are delighted that Secretary Reich after having taught at Harvard and Brandeis has now moved to Northern California where in our sort of latte- sipping, Prius-driving ways I'm hoping we're treating him better than Governor Perry's Texas might these days. [laughter] And he has written a new book, after a series of very interesting books, this latest one which compliments some of the ways we've come to know him as a commentator on NPR is titled Aftershock, let me make sure I get it right, The Next Economy in America's Future. And obviously we at Google hope to have a part in building that future, but I guess we'll find out during the course of his talk whether or not some of the knowledge economy will work in a good way with his commitment to building a robust and sustainable, labor-based economy where we really focus on finding good jobs for people across America and the world. So with that, Secretary Reich. [applause] Robert Reich: Thank you. [applause] Well thank you very much Kent and it's nice to see all of you. As you can see the economy has worn me down. [laughter] I was six foot two -- [laughter] about four years ago. [laughter] I'm gonna talk about maybe a half an hour about the economy and politics, maybe longer than that, but I'm most curious to get your questions and try to respond to them because I know what I think. Let me just say that we are in far worse economic predicament than most people had predicted when we went into the Great Recession of 2008. Let's talk about 2008 as the Great Recession although it started before and it ended after. There are many causes for our economic predicament and there are many ways out. This is not something that is difficult to do, the problem is political will. And having spent a big chunk of my life in politics, by the way Kent, I only had one date with Hillary -- [laughter] Clinton. In fact I didn't even remember that date until she was running for office and a reporter for the New York Times called me and he said, "I understand from some of her friends that you went out with her once as an undergraduate. Can you tell me was there anything about that date that struck you that might bear some light on how she would do as a President?" [laughter] Kent: It was a Presidential Summit. [laughter] Robert Reich: It was a President Summit; she was a president [chuckles] of her class at Wellesley, I was president of my class at Dartmouth and that was an easy way to get a date saying, "Oh well we'll have a Presidential Summit." [laughter] But let me just put it to you very, very clearly and as clearly as I possibly can. In 2008 the economy fell off a cliff particularly and importantly in terms of consumers; consumers are workers, workers are consumers obviously and if consumers can no longer, because they are 70 percent, their spending is 70 percent of the economy, if consumers can no longer borrow against their homes because of the housing bubble bursting, because of 7.7 trillion dollars of loss in the housing market. If consumers can no longer borrow against their homes and they see their major asset which is their homes shrinking to really almost a third less than it was worth in 2006 then most people, and combine that with worry about jobs because everybody's losing jobs around them, most people are going to pull in their spending. That's not surprising. And if most people are pulling in their spending and consumers are again 70 percent of the economy in terms of consumer spending and GDP then we're going to have a problem on the demand side. And businesses are not going to hire unless there are customers. Businesses are right now sitting on almost two trillion dollars of cash and a lot of people scratch their heads and say, "Well, why is that? Why aren't businesses just using that to expand and hire?" Businesses are not going to expand and hire if there are not customers out there. And there's a great deal of understandable worry that there are not going to be enough customers out there because consumers don't have the purchasing power. This again is not, at least at the level I'm talking to you about it, it's not all that complicated and there's not very much discord or disagreement about this fundamental reality. The question is what to do? There is a gap right now, if you think about the economy as having a certain production capacity at or near full employment and you see where we are now, we're about, and the data are not terrifically good but we can make a reasonable estimate, we're about five percent below where we otherwise could be at or near full employment. Well, who's gonna make up the difference? If consumers can't and won't, can exports? Well, exports can do it theoretically but we're not a net exporter we're actually a net importer. So to get to the point where we're a net exporter, and exporters could provide the oomph to get the economy going, well that's gonna be if ever years from now. I mean the dollar would have to drop and what do a lot of the big global exporters do if we become a net exporter? I mean not everybody can be a net exporter. That's gonna take a huge change, a tidal wave change, in the entire structure of the global economy. So don't count on exports anytime soon, if ever. So if consumers can't do it and businesses won't do it and exports certainly can't make up the difference where does the demand come from at least in the foreseeable future? Class? [laughter] [audience murmurs in response] Robert Reich: Well who's the spender of last resort? Who else can spend? male #1 : The government. Robert Reich: It is government. And when you say the word government in this environment everybody it's as if you put a shock in the room because people have very strong opinions about government. Politics is not the same as government. Politics comes from the Greek root 'poli' meaning many and 'ticks' small blood sucking insects. [laughter] No I do not really mean that because I -- [laughter] I have great respect for everybody who is in government and I was in government and most people are there for the right reasons. They can make much more money and have much easier lives if they were not there fighting the fights that they are fighting on either side of the aisle. But the point is that government is the spender of last resort. Keynesianism from 1946 up until the late 70s was basically the idea that we had. Richard Nixon purportedly said, "We're all Keynesians now." And that was because the fundamental problem with the economy in those three decades was how do you get sufficient demand? Now after 1977-78 the Arab oil `embargo`, it happened too late for most of you. I can look at you and see most of you were not even born. [laughter] But in the 30 years after the late 70s the biggest problem was inflation. And so Keynesianism sort of went into quiescence. It was not how to get enough demand it was basically how to restrain and control costs. And so monetarists and neoclassical economists and others kind of took the center stage. But after the great crash of 2008 the problem once again is adequate demand. How do you get and insure adequate, aggregate demand? And that's why, when I said to you and you said back to me, actually I asked you and you said back to me government, that's why government has got to be the spender of last resort. There is really no issue here. Most economists, most policy analysts, most experts understand this. It's a political problem right now that we're having. But it's larger than that and I don't wanna spend our valuable time on Keynesian economics I want to go to a higher and more subtle level of analysis. Economics, by the way, is on offshoot of a field that in the 19th century was called political economy. And not until Alfred Marshall, the great economist Alfred Marshall wrote his Principles of Economics, did it become a separate science in 1890. But most of the 19th century it was all called political economy because people understood you could not talk about economics without talking about politics. They were inextricably connected. And in the 18th century what did Adam Smith call himself a political economist, an economist? No. He called himself, because there was not in the 18th century even a discipline called political economy, it was moral philosophy. [laughter] Adam Smith was a moral philosopher. Because the question was what is a good society and how do we recognize it and how do we achieve it? And Adam Smith himself thought his most important work was not the wealth of nations, it was actually The Theory of Moral Sentiments, which I hope all of you have read. [laughter] Again the question fundamentally was what are the ties that bind people together? How do people work together to create a good society, ideally one that operates for everyone? [pause] Which brings me to the more complicated issue with regard to the current economy. And I want you to come back with me three decades, come back three decades. [laughter] We're back now in about 1981-82 and what we see if we are paying attention to the American workforce is that wages, which up until now at least for 30 years after the second World War until 1981-82, wages had grown in tandem with American productivity; productivity went up, wages went up. Over the 30 years from the second World War to 1981-82 in fact the economy doubled in size and wages doubled. Everybody was gaining, everybody was growing and gaining together, the rising tide really was lifting all boats. And then the median wage started to flatten. Male workers actually today if they are hourly workers that is 80 percent of the workforce are hourly workers, male hourly workers today adjusted for inflation are earning today less than they earned in 1981. [pause] Something fairly fundamental must have happened. [pause] And before we get to that, because that really underlies a great deal of what's happening now, we have to understand why what happened then was kind of masked, m-a-s-k-e-d, masked until very recently. It was masked because American workers and American consumers, who are the same things, used three coping mechanisms to maintain their purchases as if male wages had not stagnated. Coping mechanism number one' begun in the late '70s actually if you look carefully, but then a huge increase in the 1980s and then an increase in the 1990's, was wives and mothers into paid work. [pause] Go back to the 1960's and a very, very small proportion of wives and mothers particularly of young children were in paid work. [pause] Something in the order of 20 percent. Go to the 1990's is was 60 percent. Huge, huge difference. That was a coping mechanism. I wish I could tell you that it was because of the barriers to professional women suddenly dropping because of all of the wonderful opportunities there were for professional women. No, the primary reason women went into paid work in those years was to prop up family incomes that were declining because male wages were under so much stress. But there was only a limit to how long and how much that coping mechanism could work which brings up to coping mechanism number two and that was everybody working longer hours. When I was Secretary of Labor I used to go out around America, talk to people, and everybody was complaining not about joblessness. Certainly by '95, '96, '97 they were talking about the hours they were putting in. [pause] Overtime if they were hourly workers, billable hours if they were professionals. Everybody was working, in fact the data showed the typical American worker in those years putting in more hours than the typical hugely industrious Japanese worker. [pause] But that coping mechanism number two obviously also had a limit. You couldn't just keep on working forever. In fact if you had both parents working as you did in those days long hours how did they ever see each other, they were kind of ships passing in the night. I used to use a demographic term to describe these families: dins, d-i-n-s, double income, no sex. [laughter] And then you come to this past decade and what's the third and final coping mechanism? Remember wages are still flat. In fact since 2001 the median wage in the United States adjusted for inflation has actually been going down. So what is the third and final coping mechanism to continue to spend as if, as if you're actually your wages were going up? [several voices speaking at one time] Robert Reich: Debts, yes class. [laughter] Debt. And it was actually relatively painless because those housing prices were bid upward. You could just get home equity loans or you could turn your house into a kind of ATM and many people did that. Trillions of dollars pulled out of houses during those years, but with the housing bubble finally bursting, as all bubbles eventually do, that third and final coping mechanism is now exhausted. [pause] And so what we face today is not simply a Keynesian demand management problem in which government can prime the pump, it's more profound than that. [pause] The American middle class has now run out of ways to deal with a crisis or a problematic situation, the word crisis is overused, a problematic situation that actually goes back 30 years. [pause] Shortly after the President was elected he called together some of the people who had been advising him to find out sort of their opinions. What should he do now? And what was the fundamental problem? You know in your work defining the problem is almost the most important stage. In public policy, as I teach my students and as my experience has indicated over my career, defining the problem, getting the problem right is 90 percent of the issue. And the President wanted to know what's the problem? And he went around the table and various people had various views and Paul Volcker was there, he's very tall -- [laughter] when we talk it's. And he said, "The problem Mr. President is that the American public, the vast middle class, is and has been spending beyond its means." [pause] That statement is a mirror of what you hear very often. We have been spending beyond our means. And that is literally true if you followed the logic that I gave you over the last 30 years we eventually did, we borrowed, we spent beyond our means. But there's a different definition of the problem which I think is more accurate and more important and that is the means of most Americans have not kept up with what a growing, burgeoning economy could have and should have been able to provide them as it did in the 30 years after the second World War. [pause] And so that if we're going to do anything fundamentally sustainable about the economy we've got to do something about this underlying issue having to do with the stagnation of wages for most people. [pause] Interestingly when I, yes, yes. female #1: This is the rule right? We all know it well. Robert Reich: Well let me just finish my point and then I'll get to your questions 'cause this is really the point that I have to make and I'm giving myself another 10 minutes. [laughter] You see the question I just asked you has a lot to do with widening and equality because remember the economy continues to get more and more productive through most of this period apart from the fact that, and the GDP continues to grow, so the question is if the median wage is `stagnant` and if households even with women in paid work, even all of these coping mechanisms still are not doing all that better, well then where are, where's all the money going? And the answer is the money is going to the top. [pause] In the 1970s the wealthiest one percent of Americans were getting about 11 percent of total national income. [pause] By 2007, just before the crash, the top one percent was getting 23 1/2 percent of total national income. [pause] The last time, incidentally, the top one percent got anything close, in fact not coincidentally exactly 23 1/2 percent of total national income was 1928. [pause] Marriner Eccles, a man who I urge you to find out more about, he was the head of the Federal Reserve Board from 1934 to 1948, did a study in the early 50s and tried to determine the causes of the Great Depression. And his conclusion was that you had such inequality by the time of the middle and late 1920s that the only way the vast middle class of America could continue to spend on a scale required to keep the economy going was by going deeper and deeper and deeper into debt and that was not sustainable. [pause] And therefore that debt bubble eventually burst. Meanwhile the people at the top, given that vast fortunes income and wealth were becoming more and more concentrated by the late 20s, the economy was prone, was more fragile, prone to boons and busts because the investor class was getting, although at the margin there were a lot of other people investing but the basic, the big investment class they were getting smaller and smaller and they were all making the same kinds of investments and there was a speculative boon going on as well. [pause] And you read Marriner Eccles and it is exactly as if you were reading about ? [pause] the 1990's and 2000's in America. [pause] So let me end by just talking about the question I left on the table which is what happened in the late 70s and early 80s that might have led to this fundamental change in the structure and earnings of the labor market here in the United States? What does that teach us once we understand that? And does it have anything to do with what happened in the first decades of the 20th century? What happened -- [pause] in the 1970s and 1980s and continuing on has a lot to do with your field. It has a lot to do with technology because by the 1970s certain technologies were coming on stream: [pause] cargo ships, containers, [pause] satellite communication technologies, automated technologies. You see some of these technologies allowed for the first time -- [pause] American companies and foreign companies to sell in the United States at relatively low cost transportation and communication technologies. Other technologies led to automation eventually computers, eventually the Internet really displaced an awful lot of people from jobs that had been relatively high paid and relatively unionized; they were service jobs. [pause] It doesn't matter what you were talking about if you were in routine work, if you were an American worker in routine work, day to day did the same thing over and over again, and don't get me wrong I'm not recommending we go back to those days because those were boring jobs many of them. But if you were doing the same thing over and over again you were either replaced by foreign workers who could do it more cheaply or by automated machinery that could do it more cheaply -- [pause] leaving two categories of job-- [pause] left. The largest category by far were personal service jobs that could not be done by automated machinery because the essence of the job was attention and service: retail, restaurant, hotel, hospital, teaching, a lot of jobs that are basically still there in fact most of our wage and payroll and job growth in the last 30 years has been in the personal service sector of the economy. The problem is these jobs don't pay very much. Supply and demand; the supply is very large, demand is not all that large, productivity is limited in terms of productivity enhancements and the educational background is not very necessarily high -- [pause] except for teachers. I am a teacher -- [laughter] very hard to be a teacher. But then the other job category much fewer, many, many fewer people and you all fit into this other category, these are people with enough education and the right kind of education and the right connections to really take advantage of globalization and technological change. [pause] Their productivity, their importance in the economy kept on increasing. [pause] We went from an economy based on high volume, standardized, stable, mass production, economies were scaled -- [pause] to an economy based on innovation in which the major barrier to entry was continuous innovation. Making these people, the innovators, well educated, well connected, able to identify and solve problems the most valuable people around, i.e., Google. [laughter] [pause] So this story that I'm telling you is not about blame -- [pause] this is about progress. [pause] The problem is that the fruits of our productivity increases and they have been dramatic partly because of you guys. The fruits of those productivity increases, instead of being shared as they were in the first three decades after the second World War, are now not being shared. Almost all the gains from economic growth have gone to the top and that is not sustainable economically. It may not be sustainable politically and it may not be sustainable morally, but it's not sustainable economically either. [pause] What we see now across the country is a degree of insecurity, economic insecurity that I've not seen in my lifetime. And economic insecurity translates, remember politics, economics, politics, economics, moral philosophy, economic insecurity translates into fertile ground for demagogues who want to channel those angers and frustrations at easy targets. [pause] Immigrants -- [pause] the poor, the rich -- [pause] government, foreigners -- [pause] the French -- [laughter] [pause] So the stakes here are really very, very high. And when I was invited to come down and talk with you I jumped at the chance because you are problem solvers, you have generated huge productivity increases in terms of information technology and I beseech you, I urge you, to take on what I consider to be, along with environmental change, climate change, the other big issue in our society and in other societies not just happening here for the same reason it's happening all over the world, and that is widening inequality and it's social, political, and economic consequences. [pause] And report back to me. [laughter] Thank you. [applause] Now , [applause] now we have a half hour for your questions and hopefully my comments. Yes. male #2: So one of your measures was median wages, I assume you're only talking about American median wages and you said that they went stagnant; you added more women, you worked longer, we acquired debt. But I can think of at least two other ways that we can, actually let me phrase it this way: I don't know if wages is the right metric. I think a better metric would be post-taxes purchasing power. So even though I'm making the same amount of money on wages, I may still have a better standard of living because some of my costs have gone down. So if we shift the argument to that metric -- Robert Reich: Yeah, let's call it disposable income after taxes. male #2: Right. I also wanna throw in there though the efficiency of the dollar that I get to spend as well because productivity may allow me to buy more for that dollar as well. Robert Reich: Yep. male #2: So does your argument of stagnation change under that other metric? Robert Reich: Well the two things you put on the table: one, disposable income after taxes. What we've seen is that the tax system if you include payroll taxes which have become more regressive and also state sales taxes which are quite regressive and also state property taxes which on balance are pretty regressive and tolls and all the service fees that we now see being imposed, which are very regressive, but we have an income tax that is pretty progressive. If you add it all together the whole system is almost a wash. Now I say that advisedly because the Bush tax cuts really did make the income tax system more regressive. And as you know if we have a 15 percent capital gains tax and a lot of people at the top are gaming their income so that more and more of it appears as capital gains, so obviously Warren Buffett says truthfully he's paying 17 percent tax. And you've got the top 400, the wealthiest 400 Americans last year according to the IRS paying 17 percent tax because they gamed the system. So if you include all of that the system is quite regressive. Back to your question. Is there a way of making after-tax income more progressive making up for the stagnation of median wages? Yes, tax reform I think is going to be a huge battle and a very important battle but all we hear is you can't raise taxes on the rich and you have to in fact lower taxes on the rich which is exactly what we don't wanna do for obvious reasons [chuckles] and it's kind of absurd anyway given what has happened to the labor force. The second point you asked had to do with how expensive goods are. If goods really become less and less expensive then the dollar goes further. The answer is that our measures of inflation, and when I say inflation adjusted income, should but don't really do terribly well, but should take into account the average costs for people. It's complicated, messy business. A computer today, a laptop or a tablet obviously is going to have much more power than anything sold three or four or five years ago and how do you measure that? They're two different products but how does the Bureau of Economics, Commerce Department, and others measure that? The most important point there to know is that medical costs have risen dramatically for most people. If you count in co-payments, deductibles, and the fact that companies are saying to them, "You bear more and more of the cost of your health care." Housing costs have soared for most people, that's not gonna be the case much longer because housing prices are going down. But if you wanted to get into the housing market or even a renter today still in areas like this area, in the Bay Area, it's still paying a huge amount. Food and fuel we never know, they are wild cards but they're long term trend of fuel has been up, the long term trend of food has been down. [pause] Other questions? [pause] male #3: So you talk a lot about you know obviously now there's greater concentration -- Robert Reich: You have, I can hear you but I think you have to flick -- [pause] [sound of tapping on microphone] [laughter] male #3: Sorry -- Robert Reich: You just destroyed-- [laughter] that microphone. Yeah. [laughter] male #3: You talked a lot, wow this is loud. I guess now seeing how wealth is really concentrated at the top and I think the statistic has been that amongst mature, modern economies the U.S. has the greatest disparity of wealth almost akin to emerging economies, so I guess what are the mechanisms that will allow for the transfer of wealth between the wealthiest to achieve a better distribution? Robert Reich: Well this country doesn't like direct redistribution, we never have. As I suggested we could have a more progressive tax system combined with something I did not mention and that is a bigger earned income tax credit. The EITC is now essentially the biggest anti-poverty program we have in this country. And that would be the closest we could possibly get if we ever got there to a quote redistribution although don't use that word. [laughter] Over the longer term there are many things we could do starting with the word education, early childhood education for example we know has a huge return in terms of the ability of people to have more fulfilled and fulfilling lives and also contribute to more value and get higher wages. And what concerns me right now is that we seem to be going in the opposite direction even there. State budgets are whacking public higher education and public K-12 education all over this country and actually reducing early childhood education or even childcare. It's as if we have kind of an invasion of the body snatchers problem in which for some reason collectively we are doing exactly opposite of what needs to be done. [pause] How's that for an upbeat message? [laughter] Yes. male #4: So the changes the 70s, 80s, 90s changes were all structural changes and they had the effect of making it easier for everything to flow to and from the rest of the world creating a more level playing field and so we're still trying to reach equilibrium there and you see it showing up in China and other third world countries as increased exports and standard of living. You didn't say what was the structural change leading up to 1928 and I'm guessing -- Robert Reich: Well yeah -- male #4: it was people running away from the farms. Robert Reich: Yeah. Let me get to that. You have two questions on the table and I wanna make sure there's enough time for everybody's question. Your first question I take it is are we moving to a kind of equilibrium state worldwide in which we're leveling the playing field and does that, I'm reading into your question, does that necessarily mean that a lot of Americans are going to have to settle for a lowered living standard in the future? male #4: Not actually that but if that's the case what can be done? Robert Reich: Okay. And I think the answer, the answer there is that it is not a zero sum game. China's improvements or productivity gains or however else we wanna measure their competitiveness does not come at our expense. In fact what we have learned, and I hope we learn this very profoundly and explicitly, is there is no limit to the needs of human kind that need to be met and there is no limit or finite limit that we've identified to the ingenuity of the human mind in meeting those needs. China will grow and we could if we had, and hopefully we do have the ingenuity, to generate all sorts of answers to human problems including problems that China has. So there is not an equilibrium it is a non, we never reach equilibrium, we've never reached equilibrium there's a constant process of dynamic change. The question is how many of our fellow countrymen and women are going to be brought along on the tides, the positive tides of that change or are we going to split even more than we have split now? How do we get back to where we were in terms of everybody enjoying the fruits of economic growth and productivity enhancing technologies? The second part of your question was, I've already forgotten. [laughter] male #4: What happened in the 20s -- Robert Reich: Oh, yeah. male #4: both here and in China? Robert Reich: What happened between 1900 and 1928 that led to the huge disparities and it was partly a move from farms to factories. Remember one of the things propelling the move from farms to factories in this country as well as in China and around the world at different time areas is the increasing productivity of agriculture. That was a good thing it was not a bad thing, but it did mean that there were not that many jobs for people on farms that paid all that much. They were attracted to better jobs in urban areas but they didn't pay relative to, and here's the answer. We had huge `consolidation` around economies of scale between 1900 and 1928. And those huge consolidations in the giant mega businesses and mega industries generated a lot of wealth at the top for those entrepreneurs and those heads of large corporations and their owners, but also a lot of squalor. Social costs of urban poverty between 1890 and 1920 were enormous. [pause] And so again we saw even the middle class without unions, without social supports, without safety nets starting to fall and depend more and more and more on debt until that debt bubble burst. Henry Ford was one of the few and I'm not in any way extolling the virtues of Henry Ford, in many ways he was not [chuckles] terribly virtuous. But in one respect he understood something that we do understand today and that is when he in 1914 at his Model T Ford plant offered his employees five dollars a day which in those days was three times, almost three times the typical factory worker's salary. The Wall Street Journal excoriated him as being non-American and a socialist. But Henry Ford knew something that other CEOs and other entrepreneurs did not know and that is that his factory workers if they earned enough would turn around and buy Model T Fords. male #4: Uh-huh. [laughter] Robert Reich: And he was right. Workers are consumers, consumers are workers getting back to the fundamental economic problem of widening and equality. Other questions? [pause] Can we have a female please? [laughter] I don't mean literally I just mean -- [laughter] a question by a lady. [laughter] male #5: Can you tell us where we can hire some? [laughter] female #2: There was a question over there. female #3: I have a question -- Robert Reich: Yeah. [pause] female #3: specifically about the role that you think the finance industries had and I think as an outsider it seems like that there's not being a lot done as to like the role that finance played in creating this predicament specifically like Goldman Sachs, big financial firms and how that conundrum people in this room could maybe work towards improving. Robert Reich: Yeah. Well you know there are two kinds of entrepreneurs and innovation that we've seen in this country take off over the last 40 years. One are the technological or product entrepreneurs of which Google is one of the best examples, and then there are the financial entrepreneurs. And unfortunately, and I say unfortunately advisedly and I'll come back to why I say unfortunately, the financial entrepreneurs have really dominated in terms of entrepreneurship and innovation in this country partly 'cause that's where you can make a huge amount of money relatively easily because all you have to do is be in a place and in a spot where you can nick off a little bit of, a little percentage of a huge amount of money that is passing by you. It's like owning the casino. [laughter] And that is what has happened. A financial deregulation has proven a complete disaster. We knew it and learned it in the 1930's that's why we passed the Glass-Steagall Act separating commercial from investment banking and that's why we actually did have a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we made sure that you could not over leverage the financial system because we knew that was dangerous. And yet beginning with the Clinton Administration, this happened in late years of the Clinton Administration, there was deregulation, we got rid of Glass-Steagall, we continued to get rid of banking regulations, and what do you expect, what do you expect? One of the real underlying problems which I have not got into is the political power that comes with having all of this money at the top. And the financial community has basically been one of the major contributors to both Democrats and Republicans and so even when we get so-called financial reform we get financial reform with loopholes so large that anybody on Wall Street can drive their -- [pause] [laughter] their Porsches through it. [laughter] So it's a, that is a continuing big problem. [pause] Yes, who else? Yes. male #6: Do you think that large transfer payments like in Sweden and Denmark with progressive taxation and then a labor market that's service and innovation at separate parts would be enough to improve equality or do you think we would need more changes to the labor market? Robert Reich: As I said before I think transfer payments are very difficult to pull off, particularly in the United States. There's a lot of easily churned up resentment, you get a particular point of view advanced which does have merit but not nearly the [chuckles] amount of merit it claims it has and that is, for want of a better term, the Laffer curve. Obviously people need to have incentives, inequality to some extent is a natural and inevitable byproduct of a dynamic economy in which you want to give people appropriate incentives to invest and to invent and work hard. But the question is how much incentive they need. Between 1946 and 1979, 1980 the economy was growing faster with a higher marginal tax by far -- [pause] than we've had ever since when the economy since then has grown slower and the marginal taxes have been half on the top incomes what they were. And marginal taxes in the first 30 years after World War II were always above 70 percent on highest incomes. [pause] And even after you got rid of `deductions` and credits still the highest income people in the United States were paying a marginal income tax that was way above 50 percent. Now we're battling, we're going to battle over whether we keep it at 35 percent or go to 39 percent which was what it was under Bill Clinton, the highest marginal income tax. Now I don't know about you but all the economic data show that economic growth since taxes have been reduced on the top has not generated huge spur in economic growth and indeed after the Bush tax cuts of 2001, 2003 what we've seen is median wages dropping and far fewer jobs being created in the United States. Over George W. Bush's two terms 8 million jobs. Over Bill Clinton's two terms 22 million new jobs. And I was Labor Secretary and I deserve credit for every -- [laughter] one of those. [laughter] Thank you. [laughter] Thank you. [laughter] Thank you. [applause] Other questions? Yes. male #7: So in terms of fixing structural problems. Robert Reich: Oh we have to get a mic to you. male #7: Yeah in terms of fixing the structural problems you brought up rather than just establishing redistribution, would you say that education is the key to expanding the top as opposed to having the amount of people stagnating in the middle? Robert Reich: Yeah education is about 70 percent of it. But let me just emphasize it can't possibly be only education. That is I've been in communities where you've got young people going to school whose stomachs are empty and who have tooth decay problems and have been up all night because of noise. They're not learning and it's not the school's fault that they're not learning it's because they are in an environment and they don't have the proper health care, they don't have the proper environment to learn. So we've got to conceive of this as a package of problems in terms of the, creating genuine equal opportunity in this country which we used to talk about a lot and we sort of lost sight of. [pause] male #7: So would you say the solution is through direct support to those people like social outreach or it is to getting them enough redistribution payments to allow them to have a standard of living that lets them lift themselves up? Robert Reich: Well I would do several things. I would strengthen as I said early childhood education, I would make the public schools much better, now to some extent that means teachers have got to be paid for performance, but I'll tell you something that means we also have to increase teacher pay. The law of supply and demand is not eliminated at the school house door. If we want talented people to go into teaching we've got to pay them enough to compete with other places where talented people are needed in society. Thirdly, access to public higher education. I teach at the University of California Berkeley. I teach at the best, I believe, institution of public higher education in the world but it is systematically being attacked and maybe dismantled because of what is happening in this State. [pause] Does an organization like Apple or Facebook or Google or the major entertainment industries or `the major venture capital centers` of the State of California do they have any responsibility with regard to education, early childhood up through access to public higher education in this State which used to be preeminent in public education? Well it's a rhetorical question. [laughter] [pause] male #8: There we go. Now I know you've written a bit about manufacturing and how the manufacturing base in this country has shrunk quite a bit because of the, well technology. I think you talked about going to a factory in Indiana where there were very few workers because everyone was working on computers. Now if we accept that in the short run we're not going to have a large proportion or a majority of Americans going to college and getting the better education that you're talking about, what can we do for these people, what kind of jobs can we create for them that would have been in the manufacturing base before? Robert Reich: The question you're raising again it's complicated and given the time constraints I'm gonna try to just highlight the most important issues. I think we do have to go from a system of K-12 universal hopefully high quality, we're not nearly there yet, education to K-14, where 11th and 12th grade and maybe, and then the following two years which could be called junior college or community college or whatever are like the German example focused on high tech skills and learning to learn skills. So that a far larger proportion of our population really is able to engage in a variety of tasks, precision manufacturing would be one. People say to me sometimes, "What you say makes sense but that golden age, that so called golden age from 30 years after the second World War to 1980 we'll never get that back again because in those years we didn't really have to compete very hard with Japan and China and Europe." And I say back, "You have it wrong. If you want an example right now of a country that is doing pretty well it's Germany." And how is Germany doing well even though it is integrating all of the East German very, very difficult social and economic, financial problem, Germany is doing well because it has a first class educational system not just for the elite but for a large portion of its middle class and its so called working class. It also has very powerful trade unions that have prevented the top one percent from grabbing, that's a pejorative term, erase that, scribe that, from getting the 20 or 23 percent of the total national income. In Germany the top one percent gets, receives 11 percent of total national income. So there is a much more equitable distribution of gains from economic growth. Germany is a major exporter of manufactured items. Well how can that be when manufacturing is centered in China? Because Germany's focused on precision manufacturing, the highest end of manufacturing and system integration that goes along with that high end precision manufacturing. Yes. I don't wanna keep you longer, we'll just go five more minutes, alright? Yes. male #9: You started out your talk by saying the government is the spender of last resort but of course the debt hysteria seems to be ruling out fiscal stimulus but the modern monetary theorists have come up with an alternative plan which is to not issue treasuries for the government to just spend like [bad audio] a good idea or -- Robert Reich: The Weimar Republic is their model? male #9: No -- [laughter] obviously not. No [laughs] the people who disagree with the modern monetary theorists say that we'll go the way of the Weimar Republic if they do this. The people who agree with them say that because we are in a balance sheet recession with the output gap that this can be safely done. What is your opinion on -- Robert Reich: I, male #9 this question. Robert Reich: I wanna, this gives me a good opportunity to summarize and we don't have much time so let me just do a quick three minute summary. In my view when you have this great a gap between the productive capacity of the economy at or near full employment, and define full employment in the same way we defined it in the late 90s, we got down to four percent unemployment. There's such a gap between that and where we are today in terms of production and aggregate demand that you don't wanna risk inflation. If you expand monetary policy at the same time you will have an expansive fiscal policy. And indeed both of them can help you grow the economy and the most important thing you want right now in terms of dealing with the long term debt is growth because what really drives the debt is not so much debt per se it's the ratio of the debt to the GDP. When I was a small boy my father used to say to me, "Bobby, your children and your grandchildren will be paying down the debt of Franklin D. Roosevelt throughout their lifetimes." So I was only six years old I didn't know what the debt was but I had nightmares -- [laughter] about this. [laughter] Well it turned out that my children never mentioned FDR's debt and my -- [laughter] and my grandchild, the last thing she has, will ever be on her mind, not because we reduced the amount of public spending that much. Remember went from the second World War to a Cold War, we had a Korean War, we rebuilt Japan, we rebuilt Europe, we had a highway building program. No, it was because we grew so dramatically. And unless we restore growth and the easiest way of restoring growth is through an expansive fiscal and monetary policy, we're going to make that long term debt even worse. But -- [pause] here's the big b-u-t, the big but is that fiscal and monetary policy will only carry us so far. That is you can only prime the pump if there's enough water in the well to begin with. And if the middle class, as I've been suggesting today, if the vast middle class of America including what we used to call the working class, if the vast middle class is not sharing in the gains from productivity growth, if they have exhausted their means of continuing to spend, and by the way, don't mix up consumption and consumerism. When I say spend it could be spending on -- [pause] art and music and a cleaner environment and better health, it doesn't mean necessarily stuff. But unless they have the wherewithal to have a higher standard of living in the future and share the productivity gains there is just not going to be enough aggregate demand in the system even if we have adequate fiscal and monetary policy. So putting to one side all of the moral and ethical and political and systemic problems that come from widening and equality even if you put all that aside, and my argument to the richest members of society is you will do better -- [pause] with a smaller share of a rapidly growing economy in which people feel comfortable, they're not angry, they won't resort and support demagogues then you will having a larger share of an economy that's almost dead in the water and a politics that's getting steadily angrier and meaner. [pause] female #4: Whoo-hoo. Robert Reich: Thank you for your time. [laughter] [applause] 