https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yX7atJmNJJ8

```
discrete  
bare  
martial   adj. 军事的；战争的；尚武的    
wane      vi. 衰落；变小；亏缺；退潮；消逝
doctrine  
overwhelming    
bogus   adj. 假的；伪造的
devour    v. 吞食；毁灭
fatigue   n. 疲乏，厌倦；（金属部件的）疲劳；（士兵穿的）工作服；士兵杂役（尤指作为惩罚,如做打扫、帮厨）    
invasive   adj. 侵入的；入侵性的；扩散的
sedentary    adj. 久坐的；坐惯的；定栖的；静坐的
rehabilitate    v. （监禁、戒毒或病后通过培训和治疗）使恢复正常生活；恢复……的权利，恢复……的名誉；使（建筑物或地区）恢复原状，修复  
fragrant    adj. 芳香的；愉快的
odour    n. （尤指难闻的）气味，臭味；意味，迹象；名声  
meditative   adj. 冥想的，沉思的；耽于默想的  
immerse    v. 使沉浸（于），使深陷（于）；使浸没（于液体中）    
elapse    v. 消逝 n. 时间的流逝
prick     v. 戳；扎破；（使）感到刺痛；（眼泪）引起刺痛；（眼睛）发酸；（使）内心痛苦；驱使；
acute     adj. 严重的，危险的；急性的，剧烈的；灵敏的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；锐角的；带尖音符的；（声音）高的，尖的
sensation   n. 感觉，知觉；感觉能力，知觉能力；（某种经历所产生的）整体感觉，总体印象；轰动，引起轰动的人（或事）  
circuit    n. 电路，回路；巡回活动，巡回地；环道，环线；赛车道；（英国）巡回审判区，巡回上诉法院；（一套）体操动作；统一经营的连锁剧院（或影院）
reimburse    vt. 偿还；赔偿
implication    n. 含义；暗示；牵连，卷入；可能的结果，影响
zealous       adj. 热心的，热情的，积极的  
meditate    vt. 考虑；计划；企图  vi. 冥想；沉思
diligent     adj. 勤奋的，勤勉的；细致的，潜心的  
subtle  
reverse  
torment    n. 痛苦，苦恼；痛苦的根源；折磨；使人痛苦的（人或物）  
brass      n. 黄铜；黄铜制品；铜管乐器；厚脸皮；位高权重者    
constitute   v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命
skeptical   
gobble    vi. 贪食；咯咯叫
dedicate    . 致力于，献身于；把（书、戏剧、音乐作品等）献给；为（建筑物或教堂）举行奉献（或落成）典礼；题献词
tentative    adj. 试探性的，暂定的；踌躇的，犹豫不定的
neurologist   n. 神经病学家；神经科专门医师  
```
WEBVTT Kit

ND: captions Language: en 

Yvonne Hunter: Good evening, everyone. My name is Yvonne Hunter and I am the Head of Programming here at the Appel Salon at the Toronto Public Library. It is thrilling to see so many people out this evening, so welcome. It's my pleasure to bring to the stage tonight, Dr. Norman Doidge, who many of you may know from his previous book, and Nora Young... CBC Spark's Nora Young for a conversation. For centuries, it was believed that the price we paid for our brain's complexity was that it was fixed and unregenerative. Norman Doidge has turned this idea on its head with his groundbreaking first book, "The Brain That Changes Itself". I was fortunate to be part of the publishing team that worked on that book and witnessed its remarkable reception. He presented an idea with profound implications, the idea that the brain can change, potentially discover new pathways and heal itself, recovering from conditions including stroke, ADD, Parkinson's, and dementia. This is the phenomenon of neuroplasticity. 

YH: As a journalist, author, and speaker, Nora Young explores how new technology shapes the way we understand the world around us. She is the author of "The Virtual Self", a book that looks at the explosion of data and how it affects our behaviours. Please join me in welcoming the CBC's Nora Young. [applause] 

Nora Young: Hi. Thanks, Yvonne. Welcome, it's a delight to be here. I'm just gonna... Before I introduce Norman and we get the ball rolling, I'd like to just give you a quick overview of how the evening is gonna go. I'm gonna be interviewing Norman Doidge for about 45 minutes, and after that we're gonna have a Q&amp;A from you. So, as you listen I hope you'll be thinking of questions that you want to answer, things that you wished I had asked and so forth. And just take the time to remember we don't have a lot of time, so it would be super helpful if people could keep their questions concise. That way we can get as many questions in as we possibly can. And I would say that, unfortunately, Norman is not able to answer specific medical questions. These things are very particular and we wanna keep the conversation a benefit to everyone, so please bear that in mind during the Q&amp;A and again during the book signing. 

NY: Alright, so onto our guest of honour here tonight. Norman Doidge is a psychiatrist and a psychoanalyst, and he is the author of the enormously influential book, "The Brain That Changes Itself", about neuroplasticity. And now this new book is out, called "The Brain's Way of Healing", which I could barely put down over the last couple of weeks, where he documents extraordinary examples of healing and treatment from such diverse problems as Parkinson's, brain injury and MS. And he's one of our own, a Torontonian. So won't you please welcome Norman Doidge. [applause] 

NY: So, Norman, let's start with a couple of basics. What do we mean by this idea of neuroplasticity? And how is that different from our conventional understanding of the brain? 

Norman Doidge: Sure. Neuro is for neuron, the nerve cells in the brain that generate electrical signals or patterns of information. And these patterns of information constitute the lingua franca of the brain. We've often focused on the chemicals in the brain, and they generate signals, too, but at a very local level. So, the language spoken by the chemical's views, a metaphor would be like a dialect. But the neurons are really broadcasting vast arrays of signals throughout the expansive cortical real estate throughout the entire brain. And plastic means adaptable, changeable, and modifiable. And so, neuroplasticity is that property of the brain, and this is what's so neat about it, that allows it to change its structure and function in response to activity and mental experience of many kinds. So, for the longest time, we thought that the mind was what the brain... The mind is what the brain does, because changes to brain structure led to changes in mental experience, in some way. But now we discover that changes in mental experience can lead to changes in brain structure, so that's why it's so revolutionary. 

ND: Especially because our notion of brain circuitry, and the brain in general, was that after early childhood, it didn't change. And we always saw the brain, ever since Descartes, with a very machine-like metaphor. He saw it as a hydraulic machine, which were very impressive machines 400 or so years ago. And then with the invention of electricity, we started to see it as an electrical machine, and still speak of circuits. That's really a metaphor, they're not quite circuits. 

NY: Yeah. 

ND: And of course now, the master analogy, is that the brain is a computer. When we spoke of circuits, the fixed notion of the brain was that the circuitry was hardwired and it was formed and finalized in childhood. Now that it's a computer, the metaphor has been... And by the way, there are very intelligent people who pursue the idea that the brain is a biological computer very seriously. And in that metaphor, thought is seen as somehow like software, and the structure of the brain is hardware. And the only change that hardware undergoes is it wears out over time, you use and you lose it. 

NY: Right. So the governing idea of this book, "The Brain's Way of Healing", is that stimulating the brain using, generally, some sort of energy and mental awareness can actually help in a range of problems. So can you expand on that idea? 

ND: Sure. After I finished "The Brain That Changes Itself", for that book, I had to go out and seek out stories. I went to the library at U of T originally and started reading and then contacting people who were doing relevant research, and then it became a question of immersion in their work. But after "The Brain That Changes Itself" came out, a lot of stories also began coming to me, so it was a two-way thing. And I started to notice certain themes in the stories and they fit with something that I had worked out in "The Brain That Changes Itself", but not expanded. It was amazing the extent to which a lot of the new interventions by the second generation of neuroplasticians, as I call them, a generation that wasn't burdened with proving that the brain was plastic, it was amazing the extent to which their work also involved mental work and energy in some way, and it fit very well with just the following notion. 

ND: The thing I have said about neurons... We have all sorts of experiences of... We see images, we hear sounds, we enjoy fragrant odours, but there are no images or sounds or odours in the brain. There are these patterns of electrical energy and it became apparent to me that you could influence these patterns of electrical energy in a very simple way, non-invasively, through the senses of the body. So some of our senses are what are called "transducers", probably they all are. And a transducer is an engineering term for something which turns energy of one form into energy of another form, or patterns of energy of one form into patterns of energy in another form. So sound comes in the cochlea, sound waves with the patterns of energy there, they're converted by the cochlea into electrical patterns of energy. And because the brain is plastic it became apparent that you could influence the structure of the brain, not just with thought, which is one of the things I emphasized in the first book, in mental practice and rehearsal, but with sense experience, as well. 

ND: And, of course, the retina is a transducer of light to electricity and so on. And it became... There were examples of people using light to treat traumatic brain injury, actually here in Toronto, brilliant examples, using sound for learning disorders and autism, sensory processing disorder, movement for... There's a story of a girl who was born missing a third of her cerebellum and just movement is a way... Moving the limbs is talking to the brain, actually took this girl who was supposed to be paralysed and institutionalized and she's just a perfectly normal adult now. And so, the other thing I found was that a lot of the neuroplasticians who were doing this work, when I would be talking to them... Because this becomes a very... These encounters become very personal, because these people have been isolated, dismissed, abused, they've had trouble getting grants for many years, particularly their mentors, because this was outside of the paradigm. And people don't believe in... Once you're stuck in, what I call the "doctrine of the unchanging brain," which grew up in response to this notion of the fixed brain, many condition... One patient after another, let's put it this way, in this book, was told they wouldn't get better. And if they did get better working with these people, then often people would hear those stories and they wouldn't believe that they were really sick in the first place, even though it had been very well documented. 

ND: So it became personal, because we'd all had these unusual experiences of people who weren't supposed to get better, getting better. And I learned that a lot of them were actually into various forms of traditional Eastern medicine in their private lives, or martial arts or yoga or tai chi. And although all of the energy interventions in this book are based on Western neuroscience, based on equations that you can measure in terms of Western neuroscience, it was very clear that Eastern medicine had, for millennia, taken the notion of energy very seriously and mind. Eastern medicine hadn't done nearly as brilliantly in documenting the brain. We're very good in the West of analyzing it into parts and saying what occurs where and so on but the clinical use of energy in the meridians and traditional Eastern medicine or in tai chi and so on and mind, together, were front the center. And this was, of course, what was happening as I was looking at all these various interventions. 

NY: Mm-hmm. You actually make the point, at one point in the book, that neuroplasticity sort of offers the opportunity for these two grand traditions, the Eastern and the Western medical traditions, to in fact come together and perhaps form some type of new approach to the brain. 

ND: I very much hope that that occurs, because I think there are very valuable things in both. And I myself... I remember being with people describing their Eastern medicine experiences and energy and I would try to get them to explain what was meant by energy and, in general, they had a lot of difficulty. Sometimes, if they were very advanced in tai chi or something like that, they would describe physical sensations, but I struggled with it, too, for sure. And I've since looked into it, too, and I do tai chi. And these are very difficult to describe concepts in Western medicine, but what is becoming completely clear to me or has become clear to me is that we have this really funny attitude in Western medicine towards energy, I think, in clinical practice, because there's a lot of eye-rolling that goes on when people hear about these energy-based interventions. We're very focused on use of medication and surgery, and there's room for those, of course. But it just became clear that... In medical school, for instance, you may have to take a physics course to get into medicine, but you don't really study physics in medicine. And the eye-rolling occurs because there really is very little emphasis in clinical practice. And yet, what is the most common symptom in all of clinical practice? It's an energy symptom. It's fatigue. 

NY: Right. 

ND: That's really interesting. And the other thing is, sometimes when people are suspicious of energy medicine and think it sounds very flaky, and sometimes people describe it in a very flaky way, I don't deny that. I sometimes cringe at the way people describe it. The fact is, a sceptic usually will come and say, "Well, I wanna see that on an FMRI," or, "I wanna see an x-ray or something like that, proving that what you say... The changes made, were possible." But what is an FMRI and what is an x-ray? They're energy assessors. X-rays are rays and FMRIs use magnetism. And, in fact, in all of our assessments, the people who developed those machines and assessing tools are very much into quantum physics and lasers and all of that and... But in clinical practice, we don't make very much use of those concepts. 

NY: So, in the book, you travel all over the world and you meet people who have had these really astonishing results, using various techniques. I'd like to just talk about one specific example, because it's so common, which is chronic pain. 

ND: Mm-hmm. 

NY: So, first of all, maybe you could just briefly say what is going on in the brain when we develop, not acute pain, but chronic pain? 

ND: Okay. So, acute pain... Everybody knows what that is and it's protective. It basically says, "A limb has been injured," and usually it's something like, "Don't move, because you could injure it further." And there are about a dozen areas in the brain. The signal is sent up to about a dozen processing areas. And they fire, we'll call it a little pinprick, if you were looking on an FMRI or some kind of scan. Chronic pain is not the same as having a bunch of acute pains. When physicians talk about chronic pain, they mean there has been injury, both to the limb and to the pain system, itself. There's some terrible central pain problems, where some of the pain maps are firing, and there's perhaps not much going on in the body. 

ND: So, chronic pain seems to be more central and what usually happens is this. From the first book, there are plenty of examples of people refining their senses and because the brain is plastic and the senses are plastic, they develop more circuitry for sense... As their sense perception becomes more differentiated and subtle, they develop more circuitry for that. So, we know `brass players` have areas of the brain that measure the timbre of brass sound that's expanded. So, plasticity is a blessing, if you wanna cultivate one of those senses, but it's a curse with pain, which has sense-like qualities, of course. And if a nerve is constantly impinged upon over and over and over again, the brain gets, "better" at perceiving pain and hypersensitive, so that if the acute area, let's say, was just a small part of a nerve, as it occurs with Michael Moskowitz who I described in the book, initially, as the nerve was impinged upon over and over, instead of the pain lasting just a few seconds or minutes, it could last a day. And instead of just covering part of the vertebra, it extended to his entire neck, his shoulders, his head, and his upper back. Chronic pain is plasticity gone wild. 

NY: Right. So, what did he do to deal with that? 

ND: Well, he had two lessons in pain. He's a real Huck Finn-ish kind of guy, if you meet him. I mean, I first met him in a situation where he was very serious and in a suit, at the American Academy of Pain Medicine. And he's an examiner, and he writes the exams for pain medicine, but there was this hugely boyish quality to this 60-year-old man, as well. 

ND: And it was the 4th of July, a number of years ago, and he couldn't resist the pleasure of going to the San Rafael dump in California, where they were storing a bunch of tanks for the Fourth of July parade. And he climbed up on one and then he jumped off and his corduroys caught and he heard three pops. And it was the sound of the femur, the longest bone in the body cracking. And as he lay there on the ground, bleeding into his thigh, so that his thigh had actually expanded to the size of his waist, he had a `tentative` 10-pain, which that's pain medicine speak for being dropped in boiling oil, and he realized that he could bear it and then he thought, "What am I gonna do on Monday for work?" [laughter] 

ND: And then he noticed that if he lay still, perfectly still, for a whole minute, the pain disappeared. And he said, "Oh my god, it's true. What I've been teaching is true." Because he had been teaching what's called the, "Gate Theory of Pain", which is... The most important article in the history of pain was written by... Co-authored by a Canadian, and it showed that there were actually gates in the spinal cord, all the way up to the brain, like switches that could stop the signal from getting to the brain. 

ND: And, of course, many of us have seen this in action, when President Reagan was shot. He just kind of stood there and nobody knew he had been shot. And then he was pushed into the car and he said after, "I've been shot many times in the movies and I always thought it hurt, so I acted like it hurt, but now I discover that it doesn't always hurt." 

ND: And again, sometimes the brain can turn it off. So, that was a really crucial insight, a visceral insight. He knew it in theory. So many of the things in the book are things we all know in theory, like that language of the brain or the main language of the brain is patterns of energy. We all know it, but how do you use it? So he had known, and every pain physician had known, that there were these switches in the brain, but here he was conscious and his brain somehow did for him what he had been trying to do with all his chronic pain patients with medication, with acupuncture, with injections of anaesthetic. So, for the rest of his life, he would know there are switches. 

ND: The second thing that happened was, this Huck Finn, way passed an age when it might have been suitable, was water skiing with his daughters in an inflatable tube, having a heck of a time, and he flipped over and he injured his neck and he developed a chronic pain syndrome, just like I described. It was at first acute and then it became chronic, and it was really bad. He had pain 8 out of 10, many days. He couldn't work. He was quite overwhelmed by it and it so... It happened roughly around the time that neuroplasticity was coming into the literature. And he then devoured everything on plasticity, about 15,000 pages, and then he started to put things together. 

ND: So there are about dozen areas in the brain that process pain. It's not as some people think, that there's a discrete area for pain. And, of course, you may have noticed that when you are in pain, you might not be as emotionally regulated as you normally are. 

NY: Yes. [laughter] 

ND: A little cranky, trouble concentrating, maybe some trouble with higher math or doing complex visual imagery and so on. And that's because there's an area that processes pain and emotional regulation and in other, pain and attention. And there are a couple areas in the brain that actually process pain and visual imagery, strangely enough. 

ND: Now, when he studied the brain scans of the brain that wasn't in pain, the brain that was in acute pain, and the brain that was in chronic pain in these areas, what he found is the movement from acute to chronic pain involved a hijacking of those dual maps, so that, let's say the map for both pain and visual imagery, an extra 20% would be devoted to pain processing, if you will. So he had the following thought, he knew that plasticity is competitive. I mean, that was shown in a number of experiments, but for instance, if an animal has a map for this finger, this finger, this finger, this finger, and this finger, and it loses a finger, then what'll happen is the map space in the brain devoted to processing for this finger will be devoted to this finger or some other activity. 

ND: So, he thought, "What if every moment I get a pain, I force myself to visualize?" Now this is like a really key point. It didn't matter what he visualized, but he chose to visualize something that would keep him on task, because this had never been done, as far as he knew. He chose to visualize those three pictures of the brain. In no pain, with nothing lighting up on a scan, in acute pain with, sort of, pin pricks in the 12, almost a dozen areas, and then in chronic pain, where those pin pricks become like supernovas. 

ND: And imagine just turning it down. But it didn't matter that he was doing that, it was just a way of telling himself, "Moskowitz, you're not completely crazy, there are switches in the brain, the brain can be in different states. Keep visualizing." And he got virtually no results in the first week or two, but then he had really just seconds of being free of pain. And by the way, he had been on... He was on medication too, and it just wasn't touching it. And at the end of several months, he got a period he can measure, I think it was a number of minutes. And it took him the course of a year, so that every time he had an attack, he just switched into intensive visualization, and he was pain-free and off all medication. So now he had something, and he began using it with a number of patients. And I met with a number of his patients and some of them completely came off medication. These were people, by the way, who'd had chronic pain syndromes sometimes for a decade or more. I mean... And nothing was touching it, because the medications actually, often fail, because the brain is plastic and adapts to them. 

NY: Right. 

ND: So, that's the story of chronic pain and someone actually using the mind to get over it. Sometimes he uses energy, too. 

NY: But he's also an example of a number of the people that we encounter in this book, of people who are dealing with very serious things that completely hijack their lives. So, to what extent is this something that you have to be extremely focused and basically dedicate your life to getting well? Or to what extent is this something that, maybe I'm not eight out of 10 in pain, but I have a chronic pain problem? Is this something that you can do, I hate to say "more casually", but more casually? 

ND: When you are doing the visualization, you cannot be casual. You really have to use full concentration or it won't work. But if you're asking that sort of character-logical question, do you have to be unusually conscientious? I would say the first generation of people who are doing this outside of paradigm... 

NY: Right. 

ND: Have to be very open-minded. And that doesn't mean uncritical, it just means the ability to think with different models. And extremely conscientious and diligent, because no one else is doing it and probably everyone thinks you're crazy. But once it becomes established that it works, you don't have to be all that open-minded, 'cause you're not the trailblazer. And what you have to do, is you have to find some motivating factor to get you to visualize, and with chronic pain there's always a motivating factor. You have a master who reminds you. So once you... I met a number of his patients and they... Were all ranges of intelligence and ranges of discipline and conscientiousness. And they were able to do it, again, with his support. 

NY: Mm-hmm. A lot of the treatments that people pursue in the book involve various types of exercise or movement and, specifically, a level of consciousness about how people are moving. So why is that so important? 

ND: Well, we've had a view of the brain which has been very modular. And in some ways, it is the great triumph of 19th and 20th century neurology and neuroscience, to start saying where things occur. But we've tended to overdraw the modules. Sense is towards the back, sensing's towards the back of the brain and action movement, goal-directed behaviour is towards the front. So, why would sensing be so important in helping people develop normal movement? Because the circuitry really is not nearly as modular as people think. The great neurosurgeon and neuroscientist, who just passed away a couple days ago, Karl Pribram, who I had really the honour of spending a lot of time with, had actually discovered that there were some sensory cells interspersed in the motor cortex that governs movement at the front of the brain. 

ND: And the circuitry of sensing is just... These sensory motor circuits are very much involved. So there's a serious argument to be made, that one of the main reasons we have brains is because we move. There's an undersea animal that has a brain in the first part of its life, it's moving around, then it attaches itself to a rock and stays still for the rest of its life and its stomach gobbles up its brain and much of its nervous system, you don't need it anymore. Now sensory systems, I think, also evolved to deal with the fact that we're moving, and awareness can change the quality of movement in the most profound way. We see this with meditation, awareness of certain emotion without trying to change it, is often the best way to change it. So, this hasn't been at the front and center of Western neuroscience, but it's been the front and center of traditional Eastern practices, including tai chi and yoga and the meditative arts. 

ND: It just seems to be that the way... Becoming aware of movement is a technique that can lower high muscle tone, for instance, without trying to knead it with massage and so on. Awareness becomes really important in the Parkinson's case of John Pepper. He was a guy in a different, but subtle way... He was a man who was diagnosed in... Sorry. He had his first Parkinson's signs in his early 30's. Michael J. Fox had that experience, unfortunately. And he was diagnosed with Parkinson's. At the time, he was doing a lot of physical exercise for his back. And he would go at everything quite zealously and fiercely, and working very hard and the Parkinson's was getting the better of him. And he could lift fewer and fewer pounds over time, etc. He was put on the usual Parkinson's medication, including L-dopa, and initially he had a good response to it. But then he started to get side effects, and the response started to wane. 

ND: He was very, very depressed for a couple of years, too. And he just had this, kind of, epiphany that he had been feeling sorry for himself, and allowing himself to experience himself as a victim of fate, and that hadn't been his way. And then he had a very... You might argue, a simple-minded idea, but time will tell. He said, "I've got a movement disorder. Maybe what I should do is do everything I can to move, while I still can." And as it happened, his wife had wanted to lose a few pounds, and there was this wonderful program in South Africa called Run/Walk for Life. And in that program, they've taken many sedentary people, many sick people, and got them walking. And the essence of it is, you can only walk 10 minutes, every other day as you start, and then a couple of weeks has to elapse and... Lapse and... Elapse, I guess. And then you go onto 15 minutes, and 20, and you build up very, very slowly. This went against his character. [chuckle] 

ND: He wanted just to get in, and he said, "I already do aerobics." Anyway, he went on walks with his wife Shirley, and he obeyed. [laughter] 

ND: And one day, one of the supervisors, not knowing he had Parkinson's said, "Pepper, you're stooped. Stand up straight. Pull your shoulders back." And he did that, and he actually found that he had to concentrate to do it, but it worked better for him. So, one of the things that happens in Parkinson's... Two things that happen in Parkinson's are the following: There's a part of the brain called the basal ganglia, and its function is to knit together individual movements into automatic sequences. And we think of walking as just something natural, but for human beings, you actually have to learn how to walk by your mistakes. And if you watch a kid learning to walk, they're really doing one thing at a time, right? They're lifting the thigh, and then about to fall over, and swinging it forward and then putting their foot down. So, those kinds of activities are very challenging in Parkinson's, 'cause they're automatic. Or brushing your teeth or getting dressed in the morning. 

ND: So what he started doing was concentrating on every little detail. He called it his "Conscious Walking Technique". And I've since met a man from the United States, who, in parallel, had developed that kind of approach, and it seems to be using the frontal lobes to walk, instead of using a lot of the basal ganglia circuitry. So he started to do this with a lot of things. He did bizarre things. If he was drinking and he had a terrible tremor, like this kind of thing, he would reach around the back of the glass and he could bring it up to his lips without the tremor. It was using a different kind of circuitry. But the most important part of it was that it turns out that walking triggers neuronal growth... Brain growth factors, and growth factors that support the connections between neurons and the infrastructure of the brain, the glial cells. 

ND: And so if you get an illness where you can't move around, you're deprived of that, and it's a use it or lose it brain, because it's plastic, so you start to lose that. So the fact he developed this unusually intensive way of walking allowed him to get the benefits of walking, and now we... I document this in the book, and I know some people have trouble believing it, and think Pepper's a one-off, perhaps, but there's just a number of studies out now. And the assessments in the literature by the Mayo clinic and others are now showing that, indeed, exercise has a significant impact in reducing Parkinsonian movement problems, diminishing them, and the mood problems that go with Parkinson's. 

NY: Right. So, from a practical point of view, how do we... I mean, some of the stuff that you're talking about, the treatments that you're talking about, is by definition, outside of the normal conventions of what a doctor would typically tell you to do. How do you asses the truth claims of some of these things? I mean, if somebody is saying, "Listen to this type of music or whatever," how do I know that the treatment for... That is promising, that's going to offer neurostimulation... How do I `assess` whether that's gonna work for me, whether that's not snake oil, you know what I mean? 

ND: Yeah. I'll tell you how I assess it. I spent... Some people have asked me why it took me eight years to write my book, and I wrote the person back an explanation, signed it, "Unprolifically Yours, Norman Doidge." [laughter] 

ND: It's because I immersed myself in these. Science, by definition, has stages, and the initial stages might be... I mean, it's often by a very curious person, who's filled with wonder. They hear something that's unusual, and instead of being dismissive about it, which is what I would call the, "immature skeptical response"... And let me explain that, because, I mean, I actually came at this from scepticism, if I may say. The, "immature skeptical response", and we've all had it... [laughter] 

ND: Is something has happened, we believe something that we didn't really understand, and we got taken. And we all get taken, I understand that. And then we, to protect ourselves, take this attitude, when something new comes along, "If it doesn't fit with what I already know, I'll be dismissive of it." 

ND: And of course we go through life and we find we miss out on a few things by doing that. And if we're lucky, we don't completely give up scepticism. What we do is we become a little skeptical of our own scepticism and see that it doesn't always work. And we come to the realization that in this very complicated world, the immature sceptic makes a bet, and the bet is that the full... "Everything I know is somehow or other bigger and more important than everything I don't know. So if it doesn't fit with what I know, I'm not going to entertain it, I'm not gonna `investigate` it." As the sceptic matures, he or she sees that that's probably a very bad bet, 'cause as Donald Rumsfeld says, "There are the things you know, the things you don't know, and the things you don't know you don't know." [laughter] 

ND: I'm a psychoanalyst, I also think that there are the things that you know. That you don't know you know... [laughter] 

ND: That those are the unconscious things. But anyway, stick with Donald Rumsfeld, you realize that what you know does not exhaust everything that's out there. And so the mature sceptical response is to say, "Given that, I don't know the thing out there, and what I know now is inadequate", there's really only one thing you can do, which is investigate it rather than dismiss it, or say, "I don't know," and just stop there. But the immature sceptic likes to just dismiss it and then ridicule it. So what I did is I immersed myself. And so, I spent seven years following people at The Listening Centre in Toronto and I followed two dozen patients, and some of them I referred, so I could... There wasn't just cream skimming. And I saw people getting better over and over, and the number that didn't was fairly small, because the assessment there was really very thorough. And then I said, "Okay, can I reverse engineer how this is possible? Can I figure out, based on what I've learned about plasticity and the operations of the brain, could this make any sense?" And that's where the book isn't just a book of stories, it's weaving and science. And there are a lot of control studies in the book, there are tons of them. But the control studies of treatments come very late in the game, so you have a hunch or an anomaly, something that doesn't make sense and you start wondering about it and then you try to do an intervention. 

ND: And then you do the initial testing and you get a lot of clinical experience and you refine your technique. And then maybe there's that first study, and then maybe there's a number of studies. And when you work at the cutting edge, where I do, where I am spending a lot of time observing, there may not always be treatment studies. But for instance, in the Parkinson's thing, there are a lot of studies of exercise and Parkinson's. In fact, Pepper's neurologist, Jody Pearl, said, "He was ahead of us." Now there's a reason why I think it's legitimate to talk about these cases, even though sometimes there aren't large group studies. First of all, large group studies often have... There are great strengths to them and there are also flaws to them. They often have to take people who are very, very different, with different histories, nervous systems, and genetics, and try to blur it together. And I think that in neurology and psychiatry, the single case history looked at in-depth is very, very important. But by studying these single cases, you learn a lot. It's so funny, because sometimes people say, "Well, where's the long-term randomized clinical trial for this particular intervention?" And it may not have been done yet. 

ND: But clinical neurologists... Actually, if you read neurology textbooks, they love individual cases. They love Phineas Gage and that we learned about the frontal lobes from a single man who had a rod that was, unfortunately, for him, thrust up through his frontal lobes and he had a change of character. Or the man who mistook his wife for a hat. So, one of the things that I say, just very early on in the book, and it just goes with this kind of territory, because I do describe people who are getting better and who have illnesses where most people are not getting better in mainstream treatment. But I'm not trying to say this is miraculous, I never do it, I try to use science to explain it, make it unmiraculous. And this focus doesn't advocate naively replacing the neurological nihilism of the past with an equally extreme neurological Utopianism, replacing false pessimism with false hope. To be valuable, discoveries of new ways of healing the brain do not have to guarantee that all patients can be helped all the time. And often, we simply don't know what will happen until the person, with the guidance of a knowledgeable health professional, gives the new approaches a try. 

ND: Because the new approaches, all but one, never have side effects, what the person stands to lose is their time and the cost of the treatment. So where there's not a large study, I wear two hats. There's the side of me that did research training at the National Institute of Mental Health in Columbia combined and it wants to know what treatments work for whom, when, and so on. And there's a side of me that's a clinician, with a patient in front of me. And if I have one of these people, or... Not just me, I mean the people in the book, who have tried all the mainstream and complementary approaches and it hasn't helped them, I have to think, "Okay, what's best for this autistic child?" We wait and they're being bullied and they're psychologically being tormented and falling away from their peers and this, that, and the other thing. Or, because there's something available here in Toronto that's helping a number of children that I've seen, do I make the referral? 

ND: I don't think that's a tough call, in that situation. If someone is doing a simultaneous control study, where some of them go to, let's say, The Listening Center and some of them get a bogus treatment, be my guest. But I'll tell you, I've done psychiatry for 30 years and there will not be a lot of parents signing their children up for the control position condition. [laughter] 

ND: And that doesn't mean the treatment doesn't work, it's just that all forms of studies... I was just speaking with a man named Peter Elwood. Peter Elwood is at the Cochrane Institute in Cardiff, Wales. And that Institute is named after a man named Archibald Cochrane. And Archibald Cochrane was the person who, more than any other, is considered the father of evidence-based medicine and the champion of randomized control trials. And I was talking with this very senior physician who's headed 30 year studies about randomized control trials. And I said to him sheepishly, "Some of these... People are saying that the only way we can decide whether a treatment is feasible is a randomized controlled, double blind control study." And he just laughed at that and he said, "I know they say that. But sometimes those studies are not necessary. Sometimes they're not feasible, and sometimes they're not the ideal approach." I mean, he just completed a cohort study, a very different kind. The people at the top of the evidence-based medicine movement, they're not walking around just saying the same thing over and over again. "Where's the randomized control style of this, that, and the other thing." They're subtle thinkers. 

NY: Yeah. So do you get the feeling when you talk to people in the Western medical tradition that... Because you're talking about things that would require some pretty radical rethinking of the tool kit that we have for Parkinson's, for MS, for all these conditions. Is this type of message being heard or is there resistance from the Western medical tradition? What's your read on that? 

ND: I think, it varies. I think, it goes field by field. Physiotherapy is interested in it, parts of psychiatry are very interested in it. Younger neurologists seem more interested in it. Your experience determines... If you see an autistic child or someone with, let's say, a stroke. I mean, this happens every day right now, still. People are getting six weeks of physiotherapy, maybe eight weeks of physiotherapy for stroke, even though we now know that certain kinds of physiotherapy and intensive work can take people much further. I mean, as we're... Right now, in many time zones, patients are being told that, "We'll give you six to eight weeks of physiotherapy, then you're on your own. Where you are six months or a year out is where you will be. And the progress you will make between six months and a year or now and a year will be minimal." 

ND: I hear that all the time, it's still going on. And, of course, if you make that recommendation to patients, they won't make progress. So it's a self-fulfilling prophecy. So it's done in good faith, but it's very hard for doctors... It's these big steamships. They have to turn around very, very slowly. There are so many pressures on doctors. People have no idea how pressured family doctors are and doctors by... What the insurance will reimburse. The demands of the hospital. Nothing is more, in the short term, time-efficient than having a red hot prescription pad, do you know what I mean? 

NY: Mm-hmm. 

ND: And writing that thing very quickly. All of these interventions are time-intensive. They involve teaching the patients, and... So there's... I must say that `rehabilitation`... Referrals to intensive `rehabilitation` are less than I would have hoped for. But rehabilitation in many places has been radically transformed. And there was an article by, I believe his name is Robert McCrum, in the Observer this weekend. He had a stroke about 20 years ago and he described what I had seen, which is if you'd go to a rehabilitation hospital, even 20 years ago it was just a... It was a disaster, it was a place filled with despair. The staff felt despair, many of the patients felt despair. And now there's a new optimism in those institutions because of plasticity. 

NY: Right. So won't you please join me in thanking Norman Doidge. 

ND: Thank you. Thank you. [applause] 

ND: Thank you. 