```
splendid  
ample  
spouse  
overwhelming  
spontaneous  
tempt  
mediate  
affection  
reign  
potent  
inborn  
laudable  
spotlight  
fascinate  
abstain  
deter  
pending  
sarcastic  
berate  
tribute  
spur  
estrange  
tempting  
petite  
hop  
superficial  
prod  
forge  
becoming  
drift  
competent  
stain  
incompetent  
maze  
outward  
elaborate  
nasty  
laud  
cling  
ward  
league  
petition  
mend  
rage  
lash  
ephemeral  
vantage  
obsess  
```


WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: "The Happiness Project"-- the way I think about it-- is just any kind of systematic attempt to think about happiness. Because what I found for myself was that until I really started to think about it, I never thought about happiness at all. I never asked myself whether I was happy or how I could be happier. And so with "The Happiness Project" I really set out to ask myself well, what are the things that make me happy? How can I be happier? And what are the small, manageable, realistic changes that I could make in my life? So I went about it a very particular way. So I gave every month a theme, and I had several resolutions related to every theme. Whether it was energy, or marriage, or friendship, or play, or whatever. But then people can do it all different ways. One kind of Happiness Project that I love is people who pick-- and I did I've done this myself now-- one word theme for a year to give your year a driving idea. So I picked the word bigger as my team. My sister pick the word smaller. And they both are great themes. I have a friend who one of his themes was fame, and one of his other themes was dark. So you can get a picture of what he's like. And so that's another way to do a Happiness Project. There's a very prevalent and highly estimable theme in happiness. Which is to say, if you try to be happier you'll trip over your own feet. So John Stuart Mill said ask yourself if you are happy, and you shall cease to be so. So it's this idea that you can't really try to be happy it has to happen indirectly. And I hate to go up against John Stuart Mill and Eleanor Roosevelt, and many others. But I really do not find that to be true. I find that actually thinking about it is helpful. Because it's by really directly thinking about it, and saying well, what's not working? How can I be happier? That's when I started to really identify places where I could imagine making changes that would make me happier. So for me that's what doing a happiness project The means. 

SHAREE: And one thing that you mentioned was very empowering. To think of happiness as something that you can actually work towards, and take small steps towards. That's a very empowering way to look at happiness. Unlike the roundabout way of getting to happiness. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Right, right. Well, and it's interesting because one of the questions is how much is it within your control? And it turns out that researchers think that about 50% of happiness is genetically determined. So some people are born Tiggers, and some people are born Eeyores. And we've all seen that. It's pretty hard wired. Then about 10 to 20% is something called life circumstances. Which is age, occupation, marital status, education, income, health, things like that. Which you maybe have some control over, but those are more like life circumstances. And then all the rest is very much within our conscious control and is affected by the way that we think and the way that we act. So depending on where your range is, you can push yourself up to the top of your range, or push yourself down to the bottom of your range by the way that you think and act. And so it isn't just that it's flowing over you. To some extent it's not completely within your control to change your nature. But there are things that you can do to get yourself up to the top of that range instead of floating down at the bottom part of your range. 

SHAREE: That's definitely good to know. You also mentioned in your first book a concept of a happiness formula. And most people think of happiness as things that make me feel good, and then things that make me feel bad, and how to reduce the ones that make me feel bad and increase the ones that make me feel good. But you bring up an interesting point about feeling right, and about the atmosphere of growth. Which, as an adult, I didn't really think about. The feeling right part I understood to an extent. But the growth part, surprisingly, I missed entirely. Can you elaborate on these two aspects and why they're so important? Well I completely missed the atmosphere of growth at first too. Because I was trying to come up with my framework for understanding happiness, or thinking about how I wanted a framework where every little piece fit into the puzzle somehow, that there was nothing left on the floor. And so I came up with that to think about happiness you have to think about feeling good, feeling bad, feeling right, in an atmosphere of growth. And atmosphere of growth took me much longer to identify. So the feeling good is easy. You want things that make you feel full of enthusiasm, and love, and fun. And feeling bad, you want to get rid of things that make you feel angry, or `resentful`, or guilty, or jealous. And then feeling right is trickier. Because feeling right is the feeling that our life reflects our values, and that we're living up to our own idea of what we want our life to be. And this is complicated, because sometimes the things that we do to make ourselves feel right don't make us feel good. For instance I was talking to a guy to who was one of three brothers, adults. And they were very `estranged`. They had a father who was very `nasty`, apparently. To the extent that two of the sons wouldn't speak to the father anymore. And the father was in the hospital, and the one son was going and visiting him. And he said the thing is, it doesn't do anything for my happiness. I hate going, I dread going, he's mean to me when I'm there. He's been mean to me my whole life, and yet here I am going. And I said well it's because it's making you feel right. This is your idea of how you should behave as a son. And even though it doesn't make you feel good, it makes you feel right. And sometimes that's important to happiness as well, even if it doesn't translate into feeling good. And then atmosphere of growth is a little bit different. And this is the feeling that people are happier when we feel like we're growing. When we're learning something, when we're changing something for the better, when we're fixing something, when we're helping someone. And it could be something as simple as cleaning out your refrigerator-- can give you that little feeling of growth. Or learning something new. I'm sure we've all had the experience of when you're trying to learn something new and it's incredibly frustrating. You feel stupid, you feeling incompetent. And yet then when you manage to grow and you managed to learn something it's so satisfying. And the thing that's nice about the atmosphere of growth is this is really something that you can deliberately go out and pursue. You can really say to yourself wow, I'm really in an unhappy place in my life. I have a lot going on that's making me just feel terrible, and I need to find a way to plug my battery into something. What can I do? And a way to do it is to seek the atmosphere of growth. Whether it's getting a pet and house training your pet, or fixing something, or helping an organization figure out how to do their books better, or helping a friend move, or cleaning out your closet, or learning a new software program. This atmosphere of growth is something that is energizing, and in a way that's very, very positive. However, a lot of times it does come with this unfortunate layer of feeling stupid, incompetent, frustrated, having to work with annoying people, all that stuff. So you have to accept that sometimes feeling bad is part of happiness. 

SHAREE: It's also interesting that the atmosphere of growth part is probably something we need most when we are down. And that's probably when we are least likely to even attempt it. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yes. Annette, you raise a very interesting point, which is that one of the reasons that I wanted to do a happiness project was that I felt like I would behave myself better if I were happier. And I find that definitely to be true. I'm more patient, I'm more forgiving, I'm less irascible, I'm more generous when I'm happier. And studies show that although happiness has this bad reputation, and some people assume that happy people are smug, or superficial, or stupid. Actually, happy people are more interested in the problems of other people, and more interested in the problems of the world. They're more altruistic, they give away more money, they volunteer more time, they're more likely to help out their colleagues and their friends and their family. And I think when you are happier you do you feel more able to try to do something that's going to bring you that atmosphere of growth even if there's going to be a lot of frustration or anxiety attached to it. But when you're not feeling happy it can feel overwhelming to try to plug into that. And it's the same thing with helping other people. One of the best ways to make yourself happy is to make other people happy. But sometimes when you're feeling very unhappy yourself you don't have the emotional wherewithal to do it. And so even though it would make you feel better if you did it, it's hard to get yourself to do it. So I think it's worth understanding that. So then if you are an unhappy place and you feel like oh, I just I just can't handle the thought of learning how to do something new. If you say to yourself it's going to be hard, but in the end I'm going to get that charge, I'm going to get that feeling of uplift. Then maybe that can help you push yourself. Because you know that in the and it's going to be helpful, especially if you're in a difficult time. 

SHAREE: So it's about being conscious of that behavior? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yeah, I think it really helps. 

SHAREE: Another thing that you mentioned in your first book is how "The Happiness Project" could potentially prepare people for when bad things actually do happen. Would you like to elaborate on that? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yeah, when I was writing "The Happiness Project" I was worried, because I thought I was a pretty happy person when I started. And I had a great life, and one of the things I wanted to do was to appreciate it more and not take it for granted. And I worried that people who were facing major happiness challenges would find what I was writing about trivial almost to the point of offensiveness. I'm talking about make your bed, and someone else is thinking about they just lost two family members to cancer in the same month. And so I was concerned about that. But what I found is I've heard from so many people who are in these very, very challenging situations. And they have made this point to me. Which is that one time to do a happiness project is really when you are in a very challenging situation, and you're really struggling to figure out how can you be as happy as you can be under the circumstances? Maybe you can't be happy, but are you as happy as you can be? Can you make sure you get enough sleep? Can you make sure that eat regularly? Can you make sure that you see your friends? Can you make sure that you give yourself mental breaks from whatever the situation is? So that you don't burn yourself out dealing with some crisis. But then another time to do it is when everything is basically going OK, and you do have the emotional wherewithal to try to start a book group, or start exercising. Or figure out ways so that you can be yelling at your kids less or whatever. And so I think there's a reason to do it when everything's going fine, and there's a reason to do it when really everything is not fine, and you're just hanging on by your fingernails. So it was encouraging for me to hear that people didn't find my focus on these very ordinary little parts of life to be deeply annoying, as I feared. 

SHAREE: Cool. You also mention in your book that it's important to follow your true nature. And at the same time you immediately follow it up by saying it's important to also distinguish between the lack of interest and the fear of failure. Now how do you make that distinction? Because that's a really good skill to have. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: So you put your finger on the big challenges within happiness. Because on the one hand, you want to accept yourself, but you also want to expect more from yourself. And this is just a constant tension. This is like the tension between being happy in the moment and thinking about the future. You have to think about both all the time and make your decisions. There's not one easy way to do it. I have 12 personal commandments that I identified as part of my happiness projects. And the first one is to be Gretchen. And everyone should feel free to substitute there own name. And there's this idea that you have to be yourself, and to know yourself. And part of what's hard about that is that it's very easy to think about the way you wish you were, or the way you think you ought to be, or the way other people want you to be, and to lose sight of the way you really are. Well like I said, I went to law school. I was a lawyer for five years without even thinking about it. So I really have to remind myself to be Gretchen. And one of the questions within trying to be yourself is when are you setting yourself a task that's appropriate for you and is within your own nature, and is pushing you in the right direction to expect more from yourself? And when are you really picking something for the wrong reasons? Or not because it's really meaningful to you but it's related to a fantasy of who you think you are, or the way you wish you would be. And it isn't a natural extension of your personality. It's not the right goal for you. And those things tend to be very sterile. It's very easy to burn out, or to hit a dead end with that. I recently faced this with driving. Is anybody here a fearful driver? I'm a fearful driver. OK. So I grew up in Kansas City, Missouri. So I got a driver's license when I was 16 years old, and I drove. And when I lived in Washington, DC, I drove. But I always a fearful driver. And my sister lived in LA for three years before she drove, so you see where I'm coming from. And we were living in New York, and basically any time we had to drive my husband would drive. To the point where I basically quit driving. And we weren't driving that much. But we were driving to Vermont to pick up my daughter from summer camp, and I was not driving. And I felt like that was an unfair burden on my husband. Because even if he got tired or had to take a conference call or something, he had to drive. And, also, I was beginning to feel like it was weighing on my mind. I started having dreams where there would be an emergency and I wouldn't be able to go because I couldn't drive. And I had to ask myself is being a fearful driver something that I should accept about myself as just being part of my true nature? And has been true of me for as long as I can remember, and so just accept it? Or can I expect more from myself, and deal with this fear of driving? And I so desperately wanted to believe that I should just accept it, and not drive ever again. But I did decide that it was something where I could ask myself to do it. So now I drive regularly, and I really do not like driving, but I do drive. And it's been interesting for me to hear a lot of people have something in their life that they're afraid to do, that other people do without thinking. Riding a bike, public speaking, swimming, flying. These are things, for most people, it doesn't seem like it bothers them. And then there's the people for whom it's really difficult, and you really have to say to yourself, do I want to expect of myself? But then there's other things, like music. I finally said you know what? I don't really like music. I used to think oh, if I would just go to concerts, if I would read, if I would study up, if I would sit down and listen and concentrate I would love music too. And finally, I'm like you know what? I'm just don't like music that much. And I'm sad about that. I wish I did. I see why everybody else likes it. And I wish I like it. I wish I could be Gretchen and love music, and tap into this source of joy that so many people feel. But I finally had to just say yeah, I got to accept myself. And it's just not for me. And now that I don't worry about loving music I have more time to do the things I like. Like read all the time. So its attention to accept yourself and expect more of yourself. 

SHAREE: So along the same lines, how have you seen your personality change as you've gone through the several happiness projects? And obviously you like the way your personality has changed, if it has. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Well it's interesting. Because when I started I took one of those tests. Which, by the way, drive me crazy. I hate the tests to tell how happy you are, but I score a seven. I'm pretty happy. And most people around the world will say that they are pretty happy, or very happy. So most people are pretty happy, and I'm pretty happy. So I'm average. And so the interesting thing for me is that is, I would say, is my inborn nature. And if I am lying in bed at night or I'm on the subway with nothing to read, and I'm just staring out into space, I am at a seven place. More or less, usually. I'm not in a highly ebullient person, but I'm not a melancholic person. I'm just a seven. But what has changed as a result of doing the happiness project is that my experience of my life is so much happier. I spend so much less time feeling angry, or resentful, or bored. And I spend so much more time having fun and doing the things I value. Like not worrying about music. And so even though you can't change your inborn nature, you can change the experience of your life. And I think the best example of this-- which I'm sure everybody has seen-- is if you've ever had a job that you really hated you're still yourself. You're still walking around as yourself, but your experience of your life is very different. And then if you get a job that you love, it's like you're the same person. Probably your life circumstances haven't changed very much, and maybe not at all. But your experience of your life is so much happier because you're doing something that you enjoy. So that's what I think has happened. I'm the same person. My personality is the same. But I just feel like my experience of my life has changed. Mostly with things that didn't take very much time, energy, or money. There's a lot of low-hanging fruit. At least there was in my case. 

SHAREE: So how much of the recording and tracking of the goals, and the resolutions impacts the way you perceive your happiness? And did it change between the time you were actually going through the project, the 12 months, and then after? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Well, the tracking is funny. Because actually, Marcus Mitchell, who works at Google-- I just saw him, but he had to go somewhere else. When he heard about this he was like well I think you should have your husband-- they went to college together-- you should have Jamie score you on a one to 10 scale twice a day. Then you'd have a record. And I'm like yeah, that's not going to happen. Yeah, so there are all these quantified self, and they're all people who love to track. I like to track whether I'm keeping my resolutions. So I like to track whether I'm actually sticking to the things that I'm doing. I'm a junkie for gold stars. So I like checking things off the list, and feeling yes I did it. So I do it in that way, but I don't track it in terms of my happiness level. Because for me, at least, I find that to be intensely annoying, and actually if I stand around I think am I happy right now? It sort of dissolves under me. I feel like it's more helpful to think about being happier. Like is this going to make me happier? Am I happier than I was a month ago? So am I moving in the right direction? So I think about more like that, are things moving in the right direction? Than what's my actual ranking right now, or how would I measure it? Because I do feel like that can trip me up. But accountability for following through is important. And I do think one thing-- when people are thinking about happiness projects for themselves-- one thing I think is helpful to remember is that it works better when you think of change in terms of very concrete, very manageable actions. So sometimes people will say oh my resolution is to get more joy out of life. OK so what does that mean? I have no idea what that means. And the person making that resolution, I don't think, really has a good idea. Or I want to be less stressed out. OK, why? Do you feel like you need more sleep? Do you feel like you never see your friends? Do you feel like you need to make time to exercise? Do you feel like you need to have time to write a novel? Why? Do you feel like you yell your kids too much in the morning? Do you feel like you're hitting the snooze button too much? Do you feel like you're eating too much junk food? Do you feel like you're always 10 minutes late? Do you feel like you're letting down your colleagues because you're always late with projects? What do you mean by stressed out? Because once you say what would you actually change? Then you can say to yourself this is what I'm actually going to do, and then you know whether you did it or not. And if you consistently can't do it maybe you need to set a different resolution. Or if you can do it are you seeing any beneficial change? Because to bring about change you really need to figure out what would actually be different? And not just think about vague aims without a plan for how you could bring them about in real life. 

SHAREE: One of the biggest things I got from your books was exactly that. That happiness can be broken down into actionable items that you evaluate yourself on, on a daily basis. And in that sense it sounds a lot like the OKRs we set for ourselves every quarter. And I think it makes for a perfect parallel there. I actually did start off my own Happiness Project. I did pause it for a little while, but what did come out of it is that I am participating for the first time in NaNoWritMo. And I am, as of this morning, 6,000 words away from my 50,000. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Oh my gosh, congratulations. 

SHAREE: Thank you very much. I see myself completing it by the end of tomorrow. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Wow, that's amazing. Well congratulations. 

SHAREE: Thank you. So I'm really hoping that a lot of you go out there and look at your OKRs, create daily ones for yourself. There's really a lot that'll can out of having a happiness project. OK, so I have more questions for you. Does anyone here have any questions? 

AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]? 

SHAREE: Oh, National Novel Writing Month. So you do 50,000 words over one month. Doing about 1700 a day. I skipped a few, so I'm a little behind. But I'm 6,000 words away from getting to the 50,000. It doesn't have to be a fully coherent novel, really. It's really just about writing. It's to get you through the creative block. 

AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]? 

SHAREE: Yes, exactly. I mean no one's expecting to get theirs published. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: If you're interested, there's a book called "No Plot No Problem" by Chris Baty where he lays this out. National Novel Writing Month is when everybody-- November is the month. Importantly, because it has 31 days, you have an extra day. That people do it. And there's screenwriting month, blog starting, there's a lot of offshoots. But I did it just in my own month reading the book. But it's really if you're ever attracted to kind of a boot camp start for something, it's a way to just, like you say, get your creativity going by just consistent productivity. and it's so much fun. It's really, really fun. I mean something like "The Great Gatsby" was only like 60, or 70,000 words long. So if you write 50,000 words in a month, that's a good start. But anyway, I really recommend "No Plot No Problem". Because it goes through the theory of how you should think about editing, how you should think about outlining in preparation, and how this is meant to spur creativity. Like why you would do it this way. But it's tons of fun. 

SHAREE: Yeah, and you mentioned in your book. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yes, I did. I really enjoyed it. 

SHAREE: So how long did the habits you developed during the Happiness Project last once you stopped doing the check marks? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Well, I still do almost everything that I did, because they all make me happier. And I'm less happy when I break them. So for the most part either I abandoned them right away, like the gratitude journal, which drove me crazy. Though many people love a gratitude journal. Almost everything I do and more, way more, even than I write about in both of the books. For me it's a way of thinking about the way I behave that's very, very helpful. But it was helpful to do the charts where I would check it off, because that kind of accountability also is helpful because sometimes you want to do something, or you want to make a change, and it just falls out of your mind. You just don't think about it. Except for a couple times a week. And so just even by reviewing them once a day that helped me keep them active in my mind. So for instance, now if I'm in a conversation and I start to gossip I may continue to gossip, I may break the resolution because it's hard not to gossip, because it's so fun to gossip. But the sirens are going off, are the horns are blaring being hey, that's a resolution here. Are you going to break your resolution? Are you going to go? You're right up the line, are you going to go? So I don't forget about it, and do it. I'm aware whether I am or am not. Under-react to a problem, that's one of my resolutions. And sometimes I just take it all the way up to 11, but I know that's what I'm doing, and usually I regret it, because it's better to under-react. But it's always in my mind that there is a resolution there that I am either keeping or breaking. 

SHAREE: So something about the initial checking off process really helps you get those things in your mind and ingrained? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Just to reinforce it, yeah. Actually my next book-- speaking of habits-- is going to be all about habits. Because I realize that habits are really the prequel to a happiness project. Because if you have good habits it's so much easier to be happy. And if you have bad habits it's a stumbling block. So the idea of how do you get yourself in the habit of doing anything is something that I am now completely obsessed by. 

SHAREE: That sounds fascinating. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Stay tuned. 

SHAREE: Cool. So one mantra you repeat often in your book is that you can only change your behavior and not that of others. And I'm sure that all of the resolutions you set for yourself reflect that. And why is it that important? It also screams unfair. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yeah, well, it is a sad truth of happiness that the only person you can change is yourself. Because it's so easy to think I would be happier if other people would behave properly. And to have a long list of resolutions for other people to follow, perfectly reasonable. But it doesn't work like that. Alas, you can only take yourself. But I did find that when I change the atmosphere around me changes. And when I change, a relationship changes. And very often I was able to bring about larger changes just by thinking about what I could do differently, or how I could change. And sometimes people say to me well I really wanted to do a happiness project, but my spouse doesn't want to. Or my roommates don't want to, or whatever. And the fact is nobody-- my husband, he doesn't even make New Year's resolutions. I mean he would never do something like this. It's just not his nature. I mean he feels like a martyr to happiness at this point. But you don't need to. It's not something where you need other people's cooperation. Because really it is something that is all about what can you do differently? Sometimes I think you can all agree to do something differently, but I think it should be the rare exception. Rather than thinking that handing out ideas for other people, or thinking about how other people should change to bring about change it's just not possible. 

SHAREE: There's an interesting and sad fact that you mention in your second book. It says that research found that perceived time passes more quickly as you grow older. And I think that ties back to what you mentioned earlier about growth, and a rich and vivid experience. Can you tell us more? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yeah, it's this very interesting thing that, as people grow older-- and I'm sure everybody's experienced this-- that your perception of time changes. And so looking back at your life, the first 21 years will be much will seem like it took a much bigger percentage of your existence. And it narrows as you get older. So between 60 and 80 is much less than it actually is in terms of where it is on the pie chart. And one of the things you can do to counter this is that if you do something very novel and challenging, your experience of time slows. Because there's so much new information that you're processing. And I remember a friend of mine saying that he was really happy when he and his wife had a baby. He said because life was rushing by so quickly, but when she was born it was like time stood still. And her first month of life felt like two or three years. And when I was working at the Federal Communications Commission it was so intense. There was so much going on, it was so new, there were so many people, there was so much that I had never experienced before. I mean I was only there for 14 months. But it feels like as long as law school, which was three years. Because law school was pretty familiar, and one year was pretty much like the next. Whereas this was a whole different thing. Or the time when I was clerking. It just felt like so much was happening because it was so new. And I've been thinking about this a lot for myself, for my own Happiness Project. Because I feel like time is going by so quickly, and I don't like it. I don't like this feeling that everything is racing by. So I keep thinking, well, what can I do to shake myself up? But the problem is I don't want a new career, I love my career. I don't want to have another baby. And I already have two children, so it wouldn't even be that novel and challenging probably, for these purposes. It would have other advantages, but it wouldn't with this. I don't want to move, I want to live in New York City. I don't even want to live five blocks away from where I live now. So I'm trying to think. And there's really nothing that I want to do, like to learn to speak French. I don't really want to learn to speak French. I wish I wanted to learn to speak French, but be Gretchen and don't waste your time learning to speak French. So I've been really struggling with this. One of things about starting a blog that was amazing for me-- which I didn't really know that this was going to happen, but it did serve that function for me. Because I had never done anything like that before. I didn't know anything about it. And so it was huge, it was new. It was this whole new identity for me. A whole new group of people that I was hanging out with, a whole new skill that I added. And that really did enrich that time. But now I feel like it's become part of me and part of my day. It doesn't serve that novel and challenging function. So I've really been thinking well what could I do? Like get a pet? I don't want a dog. I don't know. So any suggestions I welcome. Because there is something about the atmosphere of growth that serves this function of making life more rich, more dense. Probably moving to a foreign country. And the more foreign, the better. The more dense and rich that experience would be. And like I said I don't even want to leave my neighborhood. But there's got to be other ways to do that. So that's something that I'm thinking about, because it's a very real aspect of life. And it is something that we can affect. 

SHAREE: You also talk about unscheduled free time. And you say that it's very important for children, for creativity, and other such things. How about for adults? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Absolutely, but I would say maybe scheduling free time. Scheduling unscheduled time, as paradoxical as that is. You need to schedule unscheduled time. And I'm sure that I am talking to the people who suffer from this, which is this feeling like everything is flowing into everything else. Either you are working, or you could be working, or you should be working. Or maybe you're kind of working and you're not really at leisure, because you know you could be working or you should be working. But then there's a lot of times when you could be working, or should be working. And you're even at work, but you're not working. But that doesn't feel like leisure. And to think about giving yourself a quitting time. It used to be nine to five, right? Five o'clock was quitting time. That doesn't happen anymore. We all walk around with a cubicle in our pocket. So what I do is every day, and every day it's a different time because my schedule is very different every day. Is I say this time is quitting time. And after quitting time, I don't work anymore. I don't check my email. I don't work. And I try not even to do like household tasks, because I want it to be leisure time. And it's really important. Or maybe on the weekend you'll say from 11 to two is playtime, and I'm going to do just what I feel like. I have a friend who's a novelist. And on Sundays he does not even read nonfiction. He only reads novels. Which is his work but also his play. But he doesn't do any work, and he won't even read the newspaper or read a biography. Because he wants to have total playtime. And then people use freedom. People have all different ways of figuring out how to break free, and to give themselves free time. But I think there's sort of a feeling like I will just spontaneously have fun in my free time. Or I'll do that when I have some free time. But you don't have any free time, like for 10 years. So if you want to have a sense of leisure you have to build it in. Force yourself to wander, make time. My daughter is in second grade and they have choice time. And I love the idea of choice time. Because you can just choose whatever you want to do. But I think some people go weeks and months maybe without really having choice time. They're just picking between duty and sort of the bad trance. You know the bad trance. When you're clicking around the internet, or watching television, or flipping through a magazine that you're not even that interested in, or you're eating in front of the refrigerator, and you're in the bad trance. Usually, if you're in the bad trance it means you should go to bed. The bad trance is a sign of being too tired. So always go to sleep if you're in the bad trance. 

SHAREE: Bad trance sounds a lot like trading long-term happiness for short. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Well that's another tension within happiness. Which is thinking about what makes you happy in the moment, and thinking about what's going to make you happy in the future. I did the bad trance is sort of neither. It's not very satisfying in the present, and it certainly doesn't pay off in the future. 

SHAREE: It's even worse? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: And so if you're in the bad trance, or you notice that you're spending a lot of time in bad trance you need to think about what could I do differently? Either to have more short-term pleasure by just doing something that's going to be more fun in the moment, or by thinking about how I could use my time in a way that's going to pay off more in the end. Because the thing is, a lot of times, the things that payoff the most in the end are a lot of work. Like let's say you were going to plan a big holiday party. I mean it's a lot of errands, it's a lot of planning, it's a lot of tidying up the house. There's a lot of parts of it that are not that much fun. But in the end that's the kind of thing that's going to bring you a lot of happiness. And so it's better to spend an hour doing party planning chores than it is to spend that hour in the bad trance. Even though at the moment that you're doing it it feels mildly diverting. 

SHAREE: I try to distinguish between the two by the fact that one leaves you with memories, and the other doesn't. So you might watch a whole series of something on Hulu. And at the moment you're enjoying it. But when you look back three weeks later you don't even remember that you really did it. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: That is a great test. Because I think about energy. Like is something energizing or draining? But memories is a very good thing too. Though now that's making me call into question my ambition to watch all of Homeland within the next couple weeks. But I think that's a really good point. Is it something that is going to be adding? Or is it just something that's so ephemeral that you're not even going to remember that you did it. And then the other test is the energy. Do you walk away from it feeling energized? Or do you walk away from it feeling drained? 

SHAREE: One other thing that you mention-- it's also a sad fact, and it's in your second book. It says that small children laugh about 400 times, and adults laugh about 17 times a day. And I saw, and I was just shaking my head. And it's very true though. So since you became aware of this fact have you noticed yourself laughing more? And what do you do to fix it? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: I'm sure you can tell this, but I'm a very tightly-wound irritable type personality. And I can take it to 11, like in a flash. I have this thing, my mean face. Which apparently is this Medusa-like terrifying mean face that I make. And so many, many of my resolutions are aimed at trying to be more lighthearted, more calm, more patient, more fun, taking time for projects. Again it comes back to this idea of time. Taking time to be silly, not constantly walking around marching, or barking out orders, or crossing things off the to-do list. But to make time to have fun, and to goof around and be silly. So that kind of fact really did make me focus on how can I be more fun? And it's interesting just talking in a workplace. There's a lot of studies showing that just having fun in the workplace is important, and levity. There's an interesting book called "The Levity Effect". And by levity, it doesn't it mean people are cracking jokes and actually being funny. Because actually being funny is hard. But people can be lighthearted, and they can see the funny side, especially when things go wrong. Or they can under-react to problems, or they can have a sense of just laughing, and a sense of lightness. That is a social lubricant. It helps people work with difficult personalities, that helps people deal with anxieties and tensions. And so it really is worth something that. And also if you're in a conflict with somebody, if you can not make `sarcastic` asides, which is the worst thing you can do. But if you can find a way to joke about it or to relieve the tension it's really, really helpful. If you're in a bad place it's very hard to see the funny side, and to be lighthearted. But it really, really helps. And so to think about how to get more laughing, and more joking around, and more playing, it makes your life happier. And I think it also makes you more effective in almost any realm. 

SHAREE: That's going to know. Try to beat 17. Any questions? 

AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Or we can just repeat the question. 

AUDIENCE: Oh, OK, great. What was my question now? I loved your book, your first book. I'm one of these goal-setting people too. And I was fascinated/ overwhelmed by the fact that you added a new goal every month. Am I correct? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Yeah, Yeah. 

AUDIENCE: So after the year was over, how much did you end up actually holding onto them? What were the most important ones? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: So the question is everything was `cumulative`, so at the end of the whole thing with both projects how much did I hang onto? I mean the fact I do almost all of it still. Because it really all makes me happier. And most of the things don't take a lot of time or energy to do. I mean there's kind of this mental work of deciding to do it, and sticking to it, but they don't-- so almost everything I do. Now, I mean, I did it in a very over-the-top way, clearly. So the idea is I'm trying out all these things so you don't have to. So most people are not doing like 100, 200 resolutions a day the way I am. But I think they're reinforcing. I mean I'm very conscious of the fact that I'm happier when I behave a certain way, or when I follow certain practices. And so then that also helps me feel motivated to stick with it. Because I know that it actually has an effect, and really does make me happier. 



AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: OK, so this is funny that you ask that, because so many people are like OK is that for real? Do you still have the empty shelf? So for "Happier at Home" I did this behind-the-scenes video, which was so much fun. And I showed some of the things that I talk about in the book. Just for fun, it was just this little fun extra that I created. And one of the things that I show is my empty shelf, because so many people ask about the empty shelf. And the fact is it sounds so weird. Like why does it matter to have an empty shelf? And yet it really catches people's imagination. And so many people have told me how much they love their empty shelf. There is something about that space. Making that space, holding that space, having that margin. Thoreau said I love having a broad margin to my life. And there's something about an empty shelf that gives you that feeling of having a margin. Especially think in someplace like New York City where you feel like every little inch has to have an Ikea thing, so you can cram as much stuff in there as possible. It's nice just to have your empty shelf, you're like I got plenty of room, I got my empty shelf. 

SHAREE: And why do you think the physical environment is so important? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: This is a mystery to me. I'm constantly astonished why it is that outer order contributes to inner calm to the degree that it does. It just doesn't seem like it should matter that much. And yet, I feel-- and over and over people have told me that they feel the same way. That there is something about creating outer order that makes people feel calmer and more energetic, more creative, more in control of their life. And of all the resolutions when people tell me oh I did a happiness project. I say what did you do? What did you do to be happier at home? Or what did you do to boost your happiness? This is the number one resolution. And I'm not saying this is the most significant resolution you could do. I'm just saying this seems to be like the gateway drug resolution. The resolution to make your bed. How many people here regularly make their bed? Not that many. How many people make their bed in a hotel room on the morning they check out? All right. OK, we will talk later. There's something about these little cleaning off your desks, filing things, cleaning out your inbox. I know woman who told me she throws away every single thing in her refrigerator on January 1. It's like inbox 0. She just wants everything gone. No even half-full bottle of ketchup. There's something about outer order, clear surfaces, empty shelves that helps people feel calmer and more creative. 

SHAREE: You had a question? 

AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] are you more happy or less happy when surround by happier people? That's one. And then does it make you happier to make other people happy? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: So the question is are you happier if you're around happier people? And does it make you happy to make others happy? There's something called emotional `contagion`. And that's the term for it, because we literally infect each other with our emotions. And so happy people help make people happy. And so if you're around happier people you will feel a lift. Unfortunately bad is stronger than good, and negative emotions are more catching than positive emotions. So if you're around people with negative emotions you will also pick that up very quickly, probably even more quickly. And we pick up these emotions from each other in seconds. You could pick it up over the phone, you could pick up just by looking at a photograph. So there's this constant change of emotions that happens all the time. So being around happier people will definitely help you be happier yourself. And then your next question was does it make you happy to make other people happy? I have eight `splendid` truths about happiness, and this is my second splendid truth, which is a two-part truth. One of the best ways to make yourself happy is to make other people happy. And this is one of the nicest things about human nature. One of the best ways to make yourself happy is to make other people happy. And some people argue that this is a criticism. Like well no one can be truly altruistic, because if you do something nice for somebody else you just feel good yourself. Like, oh, well then forget about it. I'm like this is the greatest thing ever. I mean nothing makes me happier than seeing me do something virtuous. And the fact that I find that that makes me happy is good. So I see that is a positive effect of human nature, not something that makes altruistic behavior less admirable, or less laudable. But that's the first part of the second splendid truth. And I think the second part of the second splendid truth is also worth thinking about. So one of the best ways to make yourself happy is to make other people happy. And one of the best ways to make other people happy is to be happy yourself. And that gets to your first point. Which is that a lot of times we're more able to help other people be happy when we are happier ourselves. Both because of emotional contagion, that we help them. And also back to what I was saying before is I think when we're happy we have the emotional wherewithal to turn outwards. It is not selfish to want to be happier, because if it is we should be selfish, if only for selfless reasons. Because it's by being happier ourselves that we give ourselves the wherewithal to think about others. 

AUDIENCE: Hi. First of all I think you're really awesome, I'm a huge fan of your writing. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Oh, well thank you. 

AUDIENCE: So obviously you've done a ton of research, and experience, and growing over the past several years. So what is the one thing you wish you would have known five or ten years ago? Or one thing you'd go back and tell your younger self that you think would have improved your happiness? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: So the question is knowing what I know now, what would I go back to the past and tell myself? I would take it back to that point that I made earlier about be Gretchen. That's another splendid truth. Is we can build a happy life only on the foundation of our own nature, our own values, and our own interests. And I'm just one of these people who spent a lot of time thinking or being swayed by the way I thought I ought to be, or the way I wish I were, the way other people thought I ought to be. And I think that it's really by trying to figure out well is this right for me? Is this something that I value? Is this something I'm interested in? Does this reflect my nature? I wish I'd thought about that much harder, much earlier. Everything ended up fine for me. I mean that's the thing about drift. Drifting into something like law school. Sometimes it works out fine. And that's dangerous right? Because that's what makes it even more tricky, because maybe it'll all work out in the end. Don't count on it. So it all worked out. I'm glad, I'm happy about everything that happened to me. But I didn't do it mindfully, I didn't do it as an expression of what was true about me. And I wish that I had done if for that. Yeah? 

AUDIENCE: It seems like you really good about being systematic about things. What ways would you go about thinking about a framework or discovering what those things are if you're not super clear about them? 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: That is an excellent question. And in fact, for this new book that I'm working on about habits I have this section that I'm working on that's called quiz for self knowledge. And it's just every time I think about a question that I think you need to ask-- like are you a morning person or a night person? This is really important to know. Are you an abstainer or moderator? Which is something I talk about in my book. Are you spurred on by competition, or are you unspurred on by competition? Do you feel very self conscious? There's a lot of questions. So it's a very, very large issue, and I've been thinking about how to systematically figure out how would you figure that out without spending thousands of dollars in therapy? So I don't have an easy question other than to just constantly ask that, but I do feel like I'm trying to identify sets of questions. So to help spur that kind of self reflection. For me I find that it's from reading other people. Like reading Samuel Johnson, which is why mention him in my subtitle. When I read Samuel Johnson I feel like I understand myself better. He just says things and I'm like, OK, I get it. Somehow he's able to shine a spotlight that helps me understand myself. So often by reading I feel like some things resonate, but it seems like there should be other ways to do it too. FEMALE SPEAKER: That's all we have time for, thank you very much. 

GRETCHEN RUBIN: Well thank you, this was so much fun. Thank you Sharee. 