https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mcT7MIuSlLQ

```
disillusion   v. 使醒悟，使不再抱幻想  n. 幻灭，失望
strain        n. 张力；拉紧；负担；扭伤；血缘
imperial      adj. 帝国的，皇帝的；宏伟的，华丽的；专横的，飞扬跋扈的；（度量衡）英制的；<史>（纸张尺寸）（英国）762×559毫米的    
provoke       v. 激起，引起；激励，刺激；挑衅，激怒
intermittent   adj. 间歇性的
illusion      n. 错觉，幻觉；幻想，错误的观念
```

With Friends Like These_ The Americans

Britain's `imperial` story began in Newfoundland and its `acquisition` in 1583 marked the start of centuries of `intermittent` `warfare` for control of North America. The wars between the French and the British settlers, with both sides assisted by Native American allies, began in earnest with King William's War in the late 17th century and continued through the French and Indian Wars and the Seven Years War of the mid 18th century. When the Seven Years War ended in 1763 with a British victory, it meant that the settlers no longer needed the protection of the British Army; independence became a far more realistic `proposition` and was declared in 1776. In the War for American Independence that followed, the French allied with the colonists, challenging British control of the sea and sending French troops, helping ensure Britain's defeat. Relations between the US and Britain were not particularly `amicable`. During the Napoleonic Wars, the British press-ganged American sailors and disrupted transatlantic trade leading to conflict in 1812. An American invasion of Canada was defeated and British `retaliation` led to the burning of the White House. However, this was the last time the two nations were to fight. During the American Civil War, the relationship was sometimes very `strained`, and the British were annoyed and `provoked` by American toleration of Irish Republicans in the 1860s and 70s. But the two countries remained at peace. America attempted to stay neutral during World War One, but German attacks on transatlantic shipping led to it joining Britain and the Allies in 1917. The fresh American troops helped `counterbalance` the defeat of Russia and were key to winning the war. `Disillusion` with the results of World War One led to American isolationism between the wars and, though an `alliance` with America was vital to Britain's survival in World War Two, it was not until the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbour that the Americans threw their `immense` power against Germany and the Axis. After World War Two, Britain and the United States allied to counter the global threat of communism. But Britain found itself, as it had during the war, the junior partner in a military `coalition`. In spite of occasional difficulties, the UK-US alliance proved vital in maintaining world peace during the Cold War and in `confronting` new threats since its end, especially in the war on terror. The alliance between rebellious colonists and their former colonial rulers has proved surprisingly successful and enduring. 