https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75APY0XhtCQ&ab_channel=TheArmchairHistorian 

```  
bare  
evacuate   v. （把人从危险的地方）疏散，撤离；（从危险的地方）搬出，撤空；（用泵等）抽出，抽空；排泄（粪便等）
precede   v. 处在……之前，先于；在……之前做（或说）；比……更重要，比……（级别）更高 vi. 领先，在前面
ample    
reckless   adj. 鲁莽的，不计后果的；粗心大意的
foe        n. 敌人，对头
conceal    v. 隐匿，隐藏；隐瞒（真实感情或真相）；遮盖，遮住
grip  
irritate  
ardent    adj. 热情的；热心的；激烈的；燃烧般的
bombard    
relentless   adj. 坚韧的，不屈不挠的；残酷无情的，不留情面的；不停的，不间断的
strain      n. 张力；拉紧；负担；扭伤；血缘      
infiltrate   vt. 使潜入；使渗入，使浸润
junction    n. （公路或铁路的）交叉口，岔道口；汇合处，交叉点；（电子）接口；连接，结合；（高速公路的）出入口；（铁路的）枢纽站，联轨站
bulge        
intercept   vt. 拦截；截断；窃听  
inflict     v. 使遭受，使承受
drift       v. 飘移，漂流；任其自然地（或不知不觉地）进入（某种状态）；流浪，漂泊；缓慢移动；传出；吹积
bounce      v. 弹起，反弹；跳动，蹦；（使）上下晃动；（用膝盖）颠动（孩子）；蹦蹦跳跳地去；拒付，退回（支票等）；退回（电子邮件）；驱逐，解雇；（向某人）透露主意（以试探其反应）；反复跳槽，来回往返某地；（光线或声音）反射；撞击，碰撞
blow  
preclude    vt. 排除；妨碍；阻止
refrain     v. 克制，避免  
traverse    v. 穿过；来回移动；反驳；阻挠；详细研究；旋转 n. 穿过；横挡；（大炮等的）横转装置；测量导线；（壕沟的）土护墙
morale  
annihilate   vt. 歼灭；战胜；废止
besiege      vt. 围困；包围；烦扰
sabotage     v. 妨害；蓄意破坏
span  
regime  
reverse        
consequent  
skeptical  
massacre    
tamper    v. 做手脚，破坏
```

Battle of the Bulge | Animated History 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

[Music] in the snow drifts of `bastogne` a young gi `grips` his rifle. the americans stand ready to meet their foes, eager to have a stand-up fight after nights of fruitless watches. our gi scans the tree line expecting to see black-clad ss soldiers burst forth into his firing line. gunfire in the distance the din of combat finally some action. figures emerge from the trees. and he raises his rifle too. those aren't germans. as his comrades from the 99th division dive into cover `scrambling` to get as far away from the forest as they can. our gi grabs a runner by the arm what's going on the `haggard` soldier from the 99 barely gets it out the. 99th is gone, and the ss who wiped them out are right behind them. 

hi, i'm griffin johnson the armchair historian the battle of the bulge was nazi germany's final attempt to wrestle back control of the war on the western front at this stage of the war germany was hemmed in on three sides and the nazis had few options to relieve the pressure. an offensive in the east would simply be swallowed by the immense soviet red army. while doubling down on the italian front would have only a marginal impact. to hitler, the natural option was a surprise push across the relatively lightly defended ardennes and a drive toward the dutch coast to force a `wedge` between the commonwealth and american forces. and if he was lucky force the allies into second evacuation like dunkirk. a the battle of the bulge is sometimes considered the climactic conclusion to the western front of the second world war a last-ditch attempt by a `crumbling` regime to avoid being consigned to the dustbin of history but while germany's bid for world domination was arguably doomed from the start today's sponsor humankind gives you a chance to rewrite the historical record and leave your mark on a living breathing world that constantly challenges you with the consequences of your actions build your legacy by combining traits from 60 historical civilizations and progress from a primitive tribal society to a consonant spanning superpower humankind also features immersive tactical combat an aspect i personally love as it's something i've actually never seen in a 4x game with complex terrain interactions humankind lets you fight your own battle of the bulge as either a victorious conqueror or a failing superpower struggling to `stave off` the final defeat of your empire 

[Music] the vermost laid out their plans in the utmost secrecy code naming the offensive operation omran after a prussian patriotic anthem only a handful of hitler's closest commanders knew of the plan and each was forced to sign a `pledge` of secrecy on pain of death before learning its details. regimental commanders meanwhile were only to be briefed the day before the attack was to take place. To avoid tipping off the americans troops moved across the thickly forested eiffel region during the night and sheltered in villages by day with their vehicles concealed in `barns`. maps were distributed only at the very last moment and total radio silence was observed. consequently, allied air reconnaissance completely failed to notice these new troop concentrations. though, made a high priority vasht omrin was a divisive operation. field marshal wilhelm keitel was an ardent supporter, but many other commanders remained skeptical, believing the units would be better utilized in the defense of the reich. general zigfried westfall was among those who did not believe the available forces could ever reach the river muse. but `refrained` from raising any objections for fear of being labeled a defeatist. gert von runstadt and valter model also agreed this was simply one of hitler's map fantasies. Although model saw the offensive as a final gamble he had no choice but to carry out. The allies certainly didn't expect an attack the highest echelons of allied command assumed the germans were preparing a counter-attack against an american crossing of the river roar. On the eve of the offensive british field marshal bernard montgomery said the shortages of german manpower equipment and resources `precluded` any offensive action on their part. He wasn't far wrong field commanders knew fuel would be a major problem, particularly in the difficult terrain of the ardennes. The sixth panzer army under dietrich would advance in the north. The fifth panzer army under hasso von manteufel in the center and eric brondenberger's seventh army would take the south. The two panzer forces were to push toward antwerp, while the infantry would protect the southern flank against general george s patton's third army. Dietrich was to cross the vital bridges over the river `muse` within the first 24 hours of the assault before pushing onto antwerp. Montoyfo, meanwhile, would capture brussels to reach the `muse` the germans first had to pass through the `junctions` at solvit and peston, the capture of which was crucial for maintaining a stream of supplies to the advancing forces. The sixth panzer army advancing toward manchau was given special priority by hitler. It included the elite of the waffen-ss, most notably komfrupa piper led by its ruthless namesake. Piper's unit consisting of roughly 4 800 men and 800 vehicles would form the `vanguard` of the northern `thrust`. The offensive would be preceded by operation grife during which a special brigade trained under the command of ss colonel otto scorsemezi was to adopt american customs and `infiltrate` enemy lines dressed as american soldiers to capture key bridges. Eight of his nine jeep teams managed to slip through the net undetected, cutting wires `tampering` with road signs and committing minor acts of `sabotage`. One even managed to `misdirect` an entire infantry `regiment`. The germans would not find themselves facing the cream of america's fighting men the american defenders comprised six divisions of seventh corps, most of them brand new to the field or redeployed to the ardennes as a kind of working vacation after intense battle. Days before the attack the 106th infantry division heard tanks and other vehicles moving to their section of the front but their inexperience gave them no idea what it meant. Even the experienced 4th infantry division assumed the engine noises were merely one of folk's grenadier division replacing another. In the early hours of december 16th, the americans were torn from sleep by the screams of rockets and bone rattling pounding of field guns. sepp dietrich's sixth panzer army had opened fire against known u.s army positions in the first action of the battle. As the gi's scrambled out of their sleeping bags, mantoyful who had decided to ignore hitler's insistence on an opening `artillery` `barrage` crossed the river sour in secret preferring to take the sleeping americans by surprise. As he did so, engineer battalions began bridging the river ur so the 116th second and 130th `panzer` lair could follow. Evidently the `gambit` succeeded a number of american soldiers panicked and fled. One officer acknowledged that a few men broke under the strain wetting themselves repeatedly, or vomiting or showing other severe symptoms. Many american positions were surrounded and captured, but others were defended in `stunning` acts of bravery such as when lieutenant lyle j buch jr of the 99th division held a nol at lanzerat for the entire day with only 18 men they killed and wounded over 400 enemies at a cost of just one life. the fierce resistance of the 99th held up comp group piper in particular. in his impatience piper ordered his vehicles to push forward rapidly and to ruthlessly run down anything in their way. even driving them through the american minefield at the cost of five panzers. although the element of surprise counted for a lot, the german advance was not a total success and suffered from numerous delays and errors. Early in the morning the 326th volks grenadier division advanced with the aim of blocking the roads to open and achen, and prevent any american reinforcements coming in from the north. However the germans own artificial moonlight a glow created by bouncing searchlights off clouds, silhouetted the volks grenadiers perfectly against the mist and snow. and the americans had themselves a turkey shoot forcing the 326th back within an hour. The weather was a constant `irritation`. german forces experienced `horrendous` conditions on the road and in terms of visibility which meant while they struggled to move the allies also struggled to `impose` their air power over the battlefield. Nevertheless, on december 17th the germans were satisfied with their progress and morale was high a soldier in the third panzer grenadier division wrote i think the war in the west is again turning the main thing is that the war will soon be decided and i will be coming home again to my dear wife and we can again build a new home. That day, eisenhower ordered all reserve formations to the front he decided that bastogne through which the main roads leading to the muse passed was the obvious place to block the german advance. The 101st and 82nd airborne divisions were immediately dispatched. If the hundred and first could reach bastogne before montoyfel's spearhead, perhaps, these screaming eagles could turn the tide. Eisenhower had `ample` reason to be concerned piper had chosen to ignore the route mapped out by hitler due to muddy tracks instead capturing hunsfeld and bulingen where he seized a fuel dump unopposed. at each village his men massacred american pows and local villagers piper committed his most heinous crime at bournier. here he murdered 84 pows of the 285th field artillery observation `battalion` in what would become one of the most infamous episodes on the western front. hereafter, rumors of the ss massacres spread fear among the american forces in the south montoyful's fifth panzer army moved against the 28th division surrounding the ancient town of clerval which was defended heroically but ultimately fruitlessly, by outnumbered and outgunned men. Despite this brave defense, first army hq ended the day in somber spirits, fearing the germans were on the verge of forming vital bridge heads over the muse. the next day the germans continued their assault overrunning american positions in an attack against the last battalion of the second division. just 197 americans survived the assault. their final stand combined with `artillery` support helped save the rest of the division. first army hq was hastily evacuated and moved to should fontaine, but defenders at tuapong managed to stave off panzer grenadiers trying to cross the river, searching for alternative routes, piper found the forested slopes at la glaze impossible to `traverse`. and the bridge over the river lien already `blown up`. resistance prevented the germans from reaching best stone, but u.s headquarters was still struck by `paralysis`. by the end of the day general bradley still had no idea first army hq had been abandoned. the americans were fighting and dying to protect an empty house. on the 19th bradley and general patton were `summoned` to verdun to meet eisenhower. The meeting led to a reorganization of the allied defense. and thanks to `intercepted` german communications, they now had a clearer idea of the lay of the land. eisenhower insisted there would be no withdrawal behind the muse. instead, alexander patch's seventh army would extend northward to cover for part of patton's third army while patton himself would advance to bastogne to relieve the city's `beleaguered` defenders. Both sides continued to suffer heavy casualties over the next few days. with repeated german attempts to capture bastogne repulsed by heavy american artillery bombardments. nonetheless, by the evening of the 21st the town was almost entirely surrounded despite resistance and delays the germans were confident one cheerful leutenant wrote to his wife you cannot imagine what glorious hours and days we are experiencing now it looks as if the americans cannot withstand our important push. On the 22nd the german commander lutvids sent the americans a demand to surrender general anthony mcauliffe in charge of bastogne's garrison simply sent the words nuts in return. yet the demand was a bluff lutwitz lacked the strength to `annihilate` the defenders preferring instead to wait for reinforcements or else starve the besieged men out. the latter was a distinct possibility as the americans lacked resupply and had been constantly shelled if they didn't starve they may well have just broken. the snow had returned too causing poor visibility with americans and germans frequently crossing each other's lines in the `murk`. Meanwhile another attack on soviet drove away the last of the american defenders there although traffic jams faced by the germans the following day would give the us army time to regroup and pull back to form a new line. The next day marked a turning point. the weather finally cleared the skies were suddenly filled with allied aircraft allowing transport planes to conduct a massive supply drop of `ammunition`, fuel, rations, and medical supplies all around pestone. meanwhile fighter bomber attacks proved extremely effective at breaking up german attacks as they were assembling. however, general patton struggled to punch through to bastogne and was repeatedly stymied by ruined bridges that had been blown up by american engineers earlier in the battle. On the 24th acting chief of the general staff heinz guderian visited hitler to argue that the ardenne offensive had clearly failed to achieve its goals, and was not worth continuing, calling instead for renewed attention on the eastern front. hitler, however, refused to withdraw he would have been cheered by an apparent german triumph early that morning when forward elements of the second panzer division reached cell this would be the furthest west the germans would reach during the battle. But it would only be a fleeting victory. ammunition and fuel were running dangerously low to the point that even a complete withdrawal from their positions had become impossible. Food too was short and by the time the allied troops had entered cell the following afternoon they encountered only `famished` and exhausted panzer troops. That night was roonsted's turn to inform hitler the offensive had failed, but still the `fuhrer` refused to order a withdrawal, angrily dismissing him. On the 26th patton finally relieved bastogne true to form patton arrived via a reckless charge straight through the asenwa and north into bastogne covered by artillery fire and air-dropped napalm. It succeeded in driving a hole through german lines allowing troops and tanks from the 4th armored division to rush in and relieve the town. by this point hitler no longer made any mention of antwerp instead bastogne was to become his symbol of victory. and he wanted no effort spared in capturing it. refusing to listen to the protestations of his commanders hitler ordered the creation of army group lutvitz out of the remains defenders. the germans launched attack after attack against bastogne, but by the beginning of 1945, total allied air superiority and relentless american artillery salvos had caused massive casualties. german resistance and poor weather slowed the advance. and by the 11th of january, there were unmistakable signs that the germans were withdrawing. At the end of the month, the front line had been more or less restored to its position before the offensive and the germans had totally failed to reverse the course of the war. and despite inflicting heavy casualties upon the americans they had only succeeded in delaying the inevitable. Total unconditional defeat just four months later