https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hEhSCgDDLhY&ab_channel=AmericanEnterpriseInstitute

46:29

```
moral           adj. 有关道德的；基于道德的，道义上的；品行端正的，有道德的；伦理的；能辨别是非的
assassin        n. 暗杀者，刺客
grip            n. 紧握；掌握，控制；理解；不打滑，走得稳；手柄；紧握（或抓牢）的方式；（拍摄电影时）摄影机和照明设备管理人员；<英>发夹；旅行袋
bogus           adj. 假的；伪造的
scorch          vt. 烧焦；使枯萎；挖苦
encapsulate     vt. 简要描述，概括；用胶囊（或囊状物）装，封装；封装（信息，信号）；为（软件，硬件）提供接口（或界面）
relentless      adj. 坚韧的，不屈不挠的；残酷无情的，不留情面的；不停的，不间断的
discern         vt. 觉察出；识别；了解；隐约看见    
implicit        adj. 含蓄的，未言明的；内含的，固有的；无疑问的，无保留的；（函数）隐式的，隐的
imperial        adj. 帝国的，皇帝的；宏伟的，华丽的；专横的，飞扬跋扈的；（度量衡）英制的；<史>（纸张尺寸）（英国）762×559毫米的
cliche          n. 陈词滥调；使用陈词滥调；平庸之人；平庸之物；[印刷] <主英>铅版，铅版印刷；电版，电版印刷物
compatriot      n. 同胞；同国人  
prominent       adj. 重要的，著名的；显眼的，突出的；突起的，高耸的
diverge         vi. 分歧；偏离；分叉；离题
oppress         v. 压迫，欺压；使压抑，使烦恼；（纹章）使（图记）部分模糊
prime           adj. 主要的，首要的；优质的，第一流的；最可能的，最适合的；最理想的，最典型的；最初的，原始的；素（或质）数的（如2，3，5，7，11）；互为素或质数的
unaccountable   adj. 无责任的；莫名其妙的；不可理解的  
accuse          v. 控告，指责        
sanction        n. 制裁；处罚，惩罚；（正式）许可，批准；<史>（尤指基督教会的）法令，法律；（伦理学）约束力；支持，鼓励
council         n. 委员会，理事会；政务委员会，地方议会；会议：；（教会的）集会；会议  
genuine         adj. 真正的，非伪造的；真诚的，真心的
hostile         adj. 敌对的，怀敌意的；强烈反对的；敌人的，敌方的；艰苦的，不利的；不受（被购公司）欢迎的
preach          v. 布道，讲道；宣扬，鼓吹；说教，训诫
harass          v. 骚扰；不断攻击（敌人）
harassment      n. 骚扰  
brazen          adj. 厚颜无耻的；无所顾忌的；黄铜制的；黄铜色的；（声音）响而刺耳的
outright        adj. 完全的，彻底的；直率的；全部的  adv. 全部地；率直地；立即，当场    
plunder         v. 掠夺，抢劫；侵吞，剽窃；将……滥用殆尽
municipal       adj. 城市的，市政的；自治城市的，地方自治的；内政的
consensus       n. 一致看法，共识
impoverish      v. 使贫困，使赤贫；使（力量、活力或肥力）枯竭
trample         vt. 践踏；蔑视，伤害  
turmoil         n. 混乱，骚动
repression      n. 镇压，压制； 抑制，压抑
incite          vt. 煽动；激励；刺激
passive         adj. 消极的，被动的；被动语态的；（抵抗）非暴力的；（电路，装置）无源的；（金属）经表面钝化处理的，钝化的
prevail         vi. 盛行，流行；战胜，获胜
regime          n. （尤指独裁的）政府，政权；（机构、公司、经济等的）管理制度，组织方法；饮食起居制度，养生法
nasty           adj. 恶毒的，凶相的；令人不快的，令人厌恶的；（伤口、疾病等）严重的，恶性的；污秽的，下流的；（外表）丑陋的，（气味等）难闻的；造成很大伤害的；令人担忧的，难对付的；有威胁性的，吓人的  
striking        adj. 惊人的，异常的；妩媚动人的，标致的；罢工的；打击的
cognition       n. 认识，认知；认识（或认知）的结果
formidable      adj. 可怕的，令人敬畏的；（形状、数量）巨大的；难对付的    
naval           adj. 海军的，军舰的
dawn            v. 变得明朗，开始清楚；破晓，开始
coordinate      v. 协调，配合；使身体协调；（使颜色、款式、风格等）搭配，配套；给 （原子或分子）配位，与……形成共价键
constitute      v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命
consequent      adj. 随之发生的，由此引起的；（河流，山谷）顺向的
cynical         adj. 愤世嫉俗的；冷嘲的
barrel          n. 桶； 一桶（的量）；枪管，炮管；（马等四足动物的）躯干    
accommodate     vt. 容纳；使适应；供应；调解
pitch           n. <英>体育场地，球场；（感情或活动的）激烈，强烈；（音符的）高低度，音高；推销用语；（棒球中的）投，掷；沥青，柏油；<英>摊位，（街头艺人的）表演场所；（船或飞机的）颠簸；（尤指屋顶的）倾斜度；（登山）（尤指很陡的）坡段；（鹰扑向猎物前向上攀飞的）高度；（高尔夫）下旋高球（pitch shot）；（板球）弹跳点（pitch of the ball）；<英>露营地；（技）螺距，节距；印刷密度，打印密度
opponent        n. 对手，竞争者；反对者，阻止者
```

Vladimir Kara-Murza: Leading the opposition in Putin's Russia – Full interview | VIEWPOINT 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Leon: So, welcome again, Volodya, to the American Enterprise Institute, [Russian]. 

Vladimir: It's great to be here. Thanks very much. 

Leon: So, I hope to speak today, to cover a lot of ground today, obviously what Putin's doing inside Russia and outside Russia. What do you and other pro-democracy activists are doing in turn to oppose him and try to build a democratic and free and `prosperous` Russia. Secondly, what can the United States do, especially given that we're in the midst of our primaries? And of course, we'll talk about Putin's foreign policy, why he's doing what he's doing, and where do you think he's going to stop, if ever. And finally, I hope, given that you're a Cambridge-trained historian, to talk about the future of Russia and the future of the `regime`, something that you've written about a lot and thought about over the years and, of course, have the first-hand knowledge now. I can't think of a single person who could give us as good and in-depth a picture of what's happening in Russia as you. 

Vladimir: You're too kind, but I'll be happy to try. 

Leon: I'm sure we'll succeed. So, the first question is a personal one actually, personal to you, but I think it `encapsulates` the `nasty` or probably bordering the bizarre atmosphere now inside Russia. Last week, the Chechen dictator, maybe soon a caliph, Ramzan Kadyrov, posted a surveillance-like video on his Instagram account where you and another opposition leader Mikhail Kasyanov, former Prime Minister, looked like being in `crosshairs`. Now, given that your friend and colleague, Boris Nemtsov, was killed last year, and given that you were nearly poisoned to death, or so it seems, and that seems to be the `consensus` now, that you were deliberately poisoned, what do you think of this instance of `harassment`? But maybe give us a broader sense as well. 

Vladimir: Given Mr. Kadyrov's background and reputation, both Mikhail Kasyanov and I consider this video to be a direct threat, to be direct and public `incitement` to murder, and in fact we have already submitted an official request for a criminal `probe` into this posting, this publication. In fact, in the last few weeks, we have seen how serious of what seem to be coordinated attacks and threats issued by Mr. Kadyrov himself as well as his close henchmen against Kremlin opponents, against Russian opposition leaders. And in fact, just a few days ago, Mr. Kasyanov was physically attacked in Moscow by people who looked like Chechens, and in fact there were three serving members of the Russian Interior Ministry in Chechnya who were briefly detained after this. And frankly, I think this whole series of events is a direct result of the `brazen` `impunity` that has surrounded the assassination of our friend, my friend, Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, who was gunned down 200 yards away from the Kremlin nearly a year ago in February 2015. Despite the fact that traces of this crime evidently lead to Grozny or at least through Grozny... 

Leon: The capital of Chechnya. 

Vladimir: Absolutely. Or at least through the capital of Chechnya. And despite the fact that those arrested on suspicion of murdering Boris were serving members of the Interior Ministry of the Russian Federation in Chechnya. 

Leon: Victorian Guard, I would think. 

Vladimir: Absolutely. Despite the fact that Mr. Kadyrov publicly called the man `accused` of killing Boris Nemtsov to be called a true patriot, and despite the numerous requests by the lawyers representing Boris Nemtsov's children to question Mr. Kadyrov regarding this case, he wasn't questioned even formally by the investigators. We hear no criticism of him or his actions or his public threats from the Kremlin, in fact we hear the opposite. We hear, we continue to hear `laudatory` statements from the top Russian leadership with regard to Mr. Kadyrov. Just a few days ago, Vladimir Putin publicly thanked Mr. Kadyrov for his effective work, this is a quote. And Kremlin Chief of Staff Sergei Ivanov said on record that the Russian leadership has no questions for Mr. Kadyrov. Well, I think after such statements and after such words, there are no questions left for the Russian leadership itself. But `on the substance of` your question, yes, we know that it's a dangerous location to be in opposition to Vladimir Putin's regime. We have seen too many confirmations of that already. So we know the risks, we understand the risks. But frankly I think, we, those who view the future of Russia differently from what the present regime does, we have no right to stand down or to give up or to run away because it's our country and we have to fight for it.

Leon: Well, let's talk about this fight. Last fall, Russia held local elections. And your party, the party of People's Freedom, known also as Parnas, was the only one that was allowed to participate, and then only in one out of 85 Russian regions. I mean, clearly as you gear up, and that's the essence of your work as I understand it now, in Russia, as you gear up for the National Parliament, Duma elections, this September, this coming September, given this past record, and given the record of the past, God knows, 10, 15 years, where is the hope? Does it all seem hopeless and yet you continue your work? 

Vladimir: Well, first of all, let's just get one thing clear. There hasn't been a free and fair election in Russia in at least 16 years. If we judge by the statements and evaluations of international monitors, namely from the OSCE and from the Council of Europe, the last election in Russia that corresponded at least partially through the European standards of free and fair elections were held in March of 2000, so that's 16 years ago. Every election since then has been characterized by suppression of the opposition or `outright` disqualification of the opposition, as you mentioned. And in these regional elections, for instance last year, the People's Freedom Party was prevented from participating in the elections in Novosibirsk, in Kaluga, in Magadan, initially in Novgorod. And this is the usual picture. You have to understand that as a rule, genuine, real opposition to the `Kremlin` is not even allowed to formally participate in the election process, and we're off the ballot ahead of time. In those few instances when the opposition is allowed to be on the ballot, we scored pretty good results such as when Boris Nemtsov won his legislative seat in Yaroslavl in 2013 when Alexei Navalny received, even according to official results, nearly 30% of the vote in Moscow in the mayoral election in 2013. So, basically elections in Putin's Russia has been turned into a meaningless `ritual` to formalize the regime and to continue its stay in power. However, we believe, and I believe, and this is also from historical experience, that `boycotts` and passive posture never work. And I think we have to use, even this `bogus` and `sham` and watered-down election process, as it exists today, in order to try to get our message across to as many of our `compatriots` as we can, and also to help young up and coming political opposition, civil society activists to gain some political experience by participating in these campaigns, to gain some reputation, to gain name recognition. And this is precisely what we plan to do this year, this September, on September 18th, when Russia will hold the National Parliamentary elections, or so-called elections, but nevertheless. So, for instance, the Open Russia Movement, of which I'm the national coordinator, has tried twice already last year. First on the `municipal` level in St. Petersburg, and then on the regional level in Novosibirsk to support candidates. In both times, candidates whom we supported, even again according to the official results, came in second place with more than 20% of the vote. This is a really far cry from the 1.5% or 2% for the opposition and the Kremlin would like people to believe. So this year we're preparing to support 10, 15, maybe 20 candidates for the State Duma in single-member districts across Russia, mostly in big cities of course, but still across Russia, we're not talking about just Moscow, in order again to get our message across, this pro-democracy, pro-European alternative message to what the Kremlin is offering to as many people as we can, and to help our supporters, young opposition and civil society activists, to gain this experience. Because nothing is forever and this regime is not forever, and there will come a time when new generation of pro-democracy Russians will have to take responsibility for the country and we want to start getting them ready for that today. 

Leon: Excellent. We will talk about Russia's future very soon. But let me go back to, as announced, to foreign policy. Now, the word that's most commonly used, in fact, we could count the number of times when this word was used or has been used by the Obama administration, high officials, state department, White House, White House spokesman, in reaction to Putin's foreign policy, and that word is "surprised." They're constantly surprised. I mean, literally they're surprised. I could say some of them are saying, I'm quoting the spokesman for the White House, "Mr. Putin's `intentions` are hard to `discern`," or, this is my favorite, "We're dying to know what Mr. Putin is doing." Are you surprised by what he is doing? And if not, why not? 

Vladimir: Well, frankly, speaking for me personally, I understood everything they needed to understand about Mr. Putin. And I even remember the date, it was the 20th of December 1999 when he was still prime minister, 11 days from being acting president. On that day, this was the day of the Chekist, the day of the KGB or NKVD. On that day, he did three things. He opened a memorial plaque to Yuri Andropov on Lubyanka Square on the KGB building. 

Leon: Right, the former head of the KGB. 

Vladimir: This is, of course, the notorious head of the KGB who was instrumental in the campaign against `dissenters`, who invented this `punitive` psychiatry and actively promoted it and so forth. On the same day, he spoke at a big gathering of KGB veterans and he told them that a group of KGB employees that has been sent undercover into the Russian government has fulfilled their mission. Everybody thought it was a joke at the time, but he wasn't joking. And the third thing he did on the same day was to raise a glass to Joseph Stalin, because this is also Stalin's birthday, the 20th of December... 

Leon: Ah, that's right, of course. 

Vladimir: ... when he was meeting party leaders in the Moscow White House. So, for me, everything that needed to be understood about Mr. Putin, I understood on that day. Other people understood it even much earlier, so I can't claim to be an oracle or anything like that on this. But I think everything he's now doing, in terms of aggression outside of the Russian borders, in terms of his foreign policy, is direct consequences of what he's been doing domestically since the very first days after he came to power. There is no reason, in my mind, to expect a regime that `tramples` on the rights of its own citizens and that `disregards` its own constitution to, for some reason, respect the rights of its neighboring countries and to respect international law. There's no reason to expect that. I think one comes directly from another. And many of us in the Russian opposition have said this for a long time. Unfortunately, not a lot of people among Western elites chose to hear it. And I think frankly if the leaders of Western democracy has taken a firmer and more principled stand against the Putin regime earlier on, we would not be seeing the excesses we're seeing today. But we are where we are, and better late than never. And I hope that at least now the leaders of the democratic nations of the West know, "Who is Mr. Putin?" A famous question that was posed in Davos 16 years ago now. Just think about that number. It's almost a full generation that's passed in Russia since Mr. Putin came to power. He's now been in power almost as long as Brezhnev has, just two years away from that number. 

Leon: Yeah, he's about to start competing with Stalin if you count Stalin's single-man dictatorship, full dictator, since about 1929 then to '53, that's 24 years. 

Vladimir: Yes. 

Leon: He's been in a striking distance. 

Vladimir: Well, I'm certain he's not going to get to that, but it's certainly coming close. You're right. 

Leon: `Just to close up on this`, Syria, everybody is concerned about `Syria`. Again, every time Russia does something, every time they bring more troops, every time they move, they establish yet another base, this time a stone's throw from Turkish border, a NATO member, the official Washington is surprised. Surprised, surprised, surprised. What's the `endgame` there in Syria? 

Vladimir: Well, I think as with all of the foreign policy adventures of this current regime, the origins are domestic and are found inside. And once Eastern Ukraine, the Donbass became a quagmire for the regime, once Ukraine proved a too difficult target, and the so-called Novorossiya Project clearly failed, the Kremlin's propaganda machine needed new `ammunition`, a new fodder to maintain, to revive rather, the `fate` of the strongman image, to show another round of television pictures purporting to be a great power, to be sending troops halfway across the world in an `instant`, to be an equal in the world stage, if you will. And this is when Syria came in. And if you look at the Kremlin-controlled television channels in Russia, which is of course all the major television channels in Russia today, you will see that Syria has replaced Ukraine as the main subject. Whereas before, they used to show all the time the Donbass and the fight against the so-called fascists and Banderavites in the Donbass, now they're sharing Syria and the so-called fight against terrorism that Putin is, therefore, conducting in Syria. Others, of course, in additional very important reason, I think that the Kremlin is doing this, the informal club of dictators is a pretty loyal one, and Mr. Putin doesn't like to see a `fellow` `despot` fall from power. He's already seen too many in his time, from Gaddafi to Yanukovych. And I think an additional goal in this is to help preserve Bashar al-Assad in power in Syria and, of course, it's evident now to everybody that the chief targets of the Russian Air Force in Syria are not in fact ISIS strongholds, but are the anti-Assad opposition forces. 

Leon: Well, back to the United States. The presidential primaries are under way, and unlike Russians, we don't know who will be the president. Now, what would be your advice to the presidential hopefuls? 

Vladimir: Well, I think, first of all, it's important to state that it is our job and our task to bring political changes in Russia, to bring a democratic future for Russia. This is a task for us, the Russian opposition, not for anybody from the outside. But I think the best thing the U.S. government and the future U.S. president, whoever he or she might be, can do with regard to Russia is, frankly, to stand on the position of principle and to make sure that relationship with the Kremlin and with Russia is informed, above all, by the values, the fundamental values that form the basis of what the United States is all about. There's, unfortunately, too often being two extremes in the way the U.S. government deals with Russia and the Kremlin. One extreme has been to blame the entire Russian nation and Russia as a country for the actions of the unelected regime that we have now. And the other extreme is to befriend the Kremlin dictator and to pretend that Putin is a fully fledged friend and partner. Unfortunately, we've seen `wherein` houses of both parties fall into this trap in recent years. So I think it's very important on the one hand to distinguish clearly and publicly between Russia, on the one hand, and the Kremlin regime, on the other hand, to recognize that Russia today is ruled by an `unaccountable`, unelected authoritarian regime, to maintain lines of communications with Russian society and with pro-democracy forces inside Russian society. And to make it clear, and this is very important, that a future democratic Russia will have its rightful place at the table in the future world. That is a very important issue. But on the other hand, when we're talking about relationship with the current regime, with Mr. Putin's regime in the Kremlin, I think it's very important to approach them from a position of principle and from a position of strength, because a very important thing to understand about the current regime is that it does not consider compromise and accommodation as an invitation to `reciprocate`. It considers them as a sign of weakness, and it becomes more aggressive and more `brazen`. And again, we already talked about how they have become more aggressive against Western `inaction` and Western refusal to recognize the reality in many cases. And I think the most important thing is to practice what you `preach` and to practice the principles that you preach. And I'd like mention one thing in particular. A little more than three years ago, the U.S. Congress passed the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act, in my view, one of the most principled pieces of legislation ever passed in any parliament in the world. This law, as you know, is designed to end the `impunity` for those Kremlin officials and Kremlin-connected oligarchs who continue to abuse the rights of Russian citizens, and to `plunder` resources of Russian taxpayers by denying them the privilege, and it is a privilege not a right, of traveling to and keeping their assets in the United States. This is a very pro-Russian law. It's seen as a pro-Russian law by Russian citizens, and there had been numerous opinion polls to this effect. Despite the Kremlin propaganda, the Kremlin hasn't managed to present it as "sanctions against Russia" because the Russian people understand that these are targeted individual personal `sanctions` against those who abuse their rights and steal their money. But, frankly, in the more than three years since this law has come into effect, implementation has been very `timid`, and we have seen only low-level abusers targeted so far. And I think it's important to not have any glass ceilings with regard to this law, and to include `prominent` human rights abusers as well as low-level targets. However many similarities there are between the current regime and the Kremlin and the Soviet regime, and there are many similarities – we have political prisoners, we have media censorship, we have elections without choice as it were, and many, many other things that are similar – there is one major difference, and that is that while they put dissenters in prison, and while they ruled through `oppression` and `coercion`, the likes of Brezhnev, Suslov and Andropov did not keep their bank accounts in the West, they did not buy properties and yachts in the West, they did not send their kids to study in the West. People from the current regime like to do all that. They like to rule inside Russia in a manner of a third world dictatorship, but they like to use all the privileges that the Western democratic world has to offer for themselves. Now I think this double standard must end, and the best way for a future U.S. president, whoever he or she might be, to show solidarity with those people in Russia who strive for a democratic future is to end this double standard, and to make sure this law is implemented to its full extent. 

Leon: Let's talk about the Russian future. Again, you're a Cambridge-trained historian and you wear, among many hats that you wear, I've always enjoyed your `analytical` articles, and I've always enjoyed your work on Russian history, and I'll mention one of them in a moment. The future of Russia and the future of the regime, fortunately they're not `synonymous`, and you're absolutely correct about this. So let's start with something that has almost become a `cliche`. But like any cliche, I think it has a great deal of truth to it, which is that there has been an `implicit` social contract. After the `turmoil` and the revolution and the usual `dislocation` caused by great revolutions, the institutions that were put and planted in the 1990s, which are described as horrible times, and times of lawlessness, and especially corruption, that's particularly funny, the growth started and, of course, this regime benefitted hugely. And the idea was that the people who were first `impoverished` by the Soviet regime and then gone through the traditional, normal unfortunately, dislocation on the great revolution, the regime offered a `bargain`, "You stay out of politics and we see to it that your incomes grow, there's stability, and there's certain semblance of at least personal security." And because at the beginning of Putin's rule, oil was $18 a `barrel`, and then it went all the way to $140 a `barrel` almost steadily, with some hiccups, pretty much that contract has been implemented. Now, this contract appears to be under threat now. The economy contracted by 4%. It is likely to `contract` 1%, 2%, 3%, 4% if the oil stays at this level. 

More importantly, as Putin's own advisors, including his top advisor, Alexei Kudrin, Former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, said on numerous occasions, many times, Russia hid an institutional wall, the institutions are so disfigured and so hostile to the investment climate that even if, and that's Kudrin's opinion, even if oil is back to $100 a barrel, there's really no substantial growth to Russia unless oil, as you put it, grows $10-$14 a barrel every year, which is very unlikely. So let's start with this contract, between the people and the regime. It's under threat. So could you describe what might be...and I also should mention that the inflation, of course, is 13%-14%. Real incomes for the first time since Putin has been in power, as you mentioned, 16 years, are down by about 9%. And of course, Putin imposed sanctions on the imports in a country where because of the regime's economic strategy has become essentially a...or has instituted a bargain whereby it sells oil and buys pretty everything else with the petrol dollars, these sanctions on food and even more importantly, for example on medicine, are hurting a lot of people. And the government is also slashing education, they're slashing funds for medical care, social mobility is virtually stopped, we know all those things. I don't want to go down the list. So let's first discuss what do you think the reaction of the people will be? And also, what do you think the regime will do to survive? 

Vladimir: Well, I think two things are certain. First of all, there was indeed such an implicit social contract, as you mentioned. And secondly that it is under severe threat, and the `Kremlin` is increasingly struggling to fulfill its end of that social contract. The economic situation in our country today is indeed in free fall. 

Leon: Tell us what you see when you travel, especially in provinces. I understand the situation is getting to be quite dire. 

Vladimir: Sure. Well, even if you look at all the major indicators, even at the surface, we see a double-digit inflation, we see a massive devaluation of the national currency, more than 100% since 2014. 

Leon: Correct. 

Vladimir: We're seeing a decline in the GDP. We're seeing a decline and a fall in real incomes to the level of more than a decade ago. And sure, this is caused, to a major extent, by falling oil prices, but here it also has to be mentioned that during his rule, Putin has actually increased the dependence of the Russian economy on oil prices. Oil and gas accounted for 40% of Russian exports when Putin came to power. Today it accounts for 70% of Russian exports. And also it's the actions of the regime such as the so-called counter sanctions that you mentioned also that hit Russian consumers much harder than they did the intended recipients. But also the sanctions themselves that have been caused by `flagrant` violations of international law, which was also what the Kremlin regime did. Nobody forced them to it. They chose to do it and these are the consequences. So we're seeing a major, obviously, deterioration of the economy. And also, for example, going back to the oil prices, today it's about $30 a `barrel` and we're seeing 4%-5% decline in GDP. When Mikhail Kasyanov, for instance, was Prime Minister, the oil price was about $20-$25 a barrel and we saw 7%-8% growth over the years. So it's not, again, we can't blame everything, or the Kremlin rather, cannot blame everything on just the oil prices. It's also the mismanagement. It's also the destruction of institutions. It's also the enormous level of corruption, official corruption that, I think, it's safe to say is now at the highest level it's ever been in Russian history. 

Leon: I apologize, Volodya, I'll let you continue, but I just remembered something. I was on a panel with Boris Nemtsov on the 80th anniversary of Boris Yeltsin's... 

Vladimir: Five years ago. 

Leon: Five years ago. And of course, you know, there was a very special relationship between the two. First of all, they're both Borises and, secondly, my sense is, from what I read as I wrote my biography of Yeltsin and also from what I heard from Boris Nemtsov, among others, Yeltsin really treated him as a son that he never had. 

Vladimir: And he groomed him as a successor, there's no doubt about it. 

Leon: And groomed him as a successor, that's correct. So we were on the same panel together, and Boris was always extremely funny and lighthearted about things. And one of the things he mentioned that I want to say it now because of something that you said, he said, "During most of Yeltsin's rule, the price of oil on average was $18 a barrel. How many days will Vladimir Putin survive as a ruler or as the ruler of Russia if oil were $18 a barrel?" And then he said something that was very typical of him, he said, "He would be carried on pitchforks on the third day out of his Kremlin office." I just thought I would remember Boris, and I thought it was a fairly realistic `assessment`. 

Vladimir: Sure. And of course, Boris also was reminded that in the summer of '98, during the financial crisis, the price of oil, I believe, was between $6 and $9 a barrel. And again, today that government can only dream of the level that Putin currently has – $30. And we all the problems and all the crises that are happening before our eyes in Russia today under the management, or mismanagement I should say, of Putin's regime. So it's certain, I think, that the Kremlin is increasingly struggling to fulfill its part of the social contract in economic terms. So in order to maintain its grip on power, they're increasingly turning to repression and to a `relentless` propaganda, finding the external enemies, rallying up against them, all these usual things, all these usual tricks that are not new. 

Leon: Right. 

Vladimir: And we, as historians, we both saw many, many examples of this in history. But we also saw that these tricks and these attempts to hold onto power usually end the same way, and I think a very good parallel would be what happened in our own country in Russia in the late 1980s, early 1990s when, as you remember, the political control of the communist establishment remained in place, the propaganda machine over the television remained in place, but it simply became less and less and less effective as the economic reality increasingly diverged from the propaganda image. This is the `proverbial` battle between the television set and the fridge. And the fridge always wins. Certainly in Russia, always wins. And I think however much the current regime will try to cling to its power, again by finding enemies, by `rallying` up its propaganda machine, by increasing repression and tightening the screws, as it were, I think the end result will be the same. Unfortunately, and this is a very big problem, and the Kremlin likes to accuse us, members of the Russian opposition, of being revolutionaries and preparing for a Russian Maidan. Of course, I would say that the biggest revolutionaries of all are the people in the Kremlin itself today, because they're the ones who destroyed all the institutions of the state, who turned the elections into a meaningless farce, who turned parliament into not a place for discussion, as they themselves famously said, who turned all the major media outlets into weapons of its propaganda machine, and thus destroyed and eliminated every single legal and constitutional way of changing the government. And in doing so, they ensured that whenever change does come to Russia, political change, and nothing is forever, and nothing is permanent, that this change will take the shape of some kind of a revolutionary process. As the Kremlin themselves, as Vladimir Putin himself, will ensure that this will be the case. And I'm not saying it with any pleasure because as a historian, as you said, which I don't think that revolutions are necessarily a force for good, especially in our own Russian history, but this is what the Kremlin's actions are leading to, that whenever change does come to our country, and again it will come, nothing is forever, it will come as some kind of a revolutionary form. 

Leon: This is a good way, an excellent way I should say, to lead to the next topic of our discussion, which is the future of Russia. In a broader sense, Vladimir, I think it would not be an exaggeration to say that because of this relentless assault on what we consider normal civilized values – human rights, human dignity, freedom of the press, honest courts, and so and so forth – the regime has managed to create probably the most `cynical` society in Russian history, the most cynical and the most corrupt, which, again as historians, it's a hard first to take, as they would say in Cambridge. There's a great deal of competition in Russian history. But again, I'm throwing that in to see what you think. But as you mentioned, and again the public opinion polls are all showing us, and I'm drawing here on a very recent annual conference of the Levada-Center, which is perhaps the only reliable public opinion poll and independent public opinion poll and firm in Russia. And our colleague and friend, Lev Gudkov, who is the chairman, said that there's been the steady `discreditation` of the values of democracy, human rights and lawful state. And the result was what might be called the morally `scorched` Earth. In other words, the chilling picture of Russia that we saw, for example, in this brilliant movie, "Leviathan" which was nominated and should've gotten an Oscar for the Best Foreign Film, whereby so long as you pay to the next level or you contribute to the next level, essentially the coterie of the procurator, the mayor, the chief of police, and the judge could pretty much do whatever they want in their own locale. Now, how is it that given that this has been going on for so long, how is that you hope that you could draw on some sort of social capital? And let's not forget the immigration of the best and the brightest. The numbers are `staggering`, 200,000 in the last few years according to the official data. And it's just the entrepreneurs, the people who would've invented things for Russia, the people who would've opened new businesses for Russia and created workplaces and jobs, and simply the people who would've enriched the Russian culture. All of that has been draining hugely, not to mention the flight of the investment capital. And yet you continue to believe that you could draw on something to create the Russia that we talked about – free and prosperous. Could you explain why you remain hopeful? 

Vladimir: Well, Vladimir Bukovsky who's a legendary figure, as you know, in the Russian human rights movement... 

Leon: The Soviet `dissident`. 

Vladimir: Yes, and to this day, in fact. And he once said the phrase that I always like to remember, he said that, "One of the most surprising things about Russia is that at any time, despite everything, whatever happens, there are always people in Russia who are prepare to stand up to the lies, to the injustice, to the repression, and defend the honor and the dignity." And if you look at the Soviet period, millions of people were killed in the Gulag system, millions more were broken in the same system of prisons and labor camps, yet millions more immigrated, left the country. And yet in the late 1980s, early 1990s, the Russian society found to strengthen itself still to stand up and defend its newly-found freedom and to prevent a return to `totalitarianism`. And I think that's a very important lesson. And it's absolutely true and it's pointless to argue with it that Putin's rule in the last 16 years has been maintained, not just by economic giveaways, not just by `coercion`, but also by a `relentless` propaganda that's been fostering and emphasizing imperial complexes, mistrust, aggression, finding so-called external enemies. 

Leon: And internal. 

Vladimir: Yes, exactly, and internal. And dividing people into us versus them, and so on and so forth. And this will be, I think, a horrible legacy of the Putin regime, and it'll be one of the most `formidable` tasks in my view of a future post-Putin government in Russia to try to undo the damage done by this propaganda to the `fabric` of Russian society. But just as always, just as before, there are many people in Russia today, millions of them, who see a different future for our country, a future based on the rule of law, based on political freedoms, based on the dignity of the human being, based on European what we call modern European values. There are millions of them. I see them and I meet them as I travel around our country, and into different regions of Russia. They are not being heard under the current regime. They have no political representation. They have no political voice. It's designed to be that way under the present regime. But these people are there. They exist. And in my view, they offer the best hope for Russia's future development. 

Leon: Volodya, again, you touched on this here and there, but for better or worse, the impression that we get from the U.S. media or the people who would watch this is that it's a dictatorship, it's an authoritarian regime, it's a brutal authoritarian regime, there is nothing that you can do. And in fact, I found that in one case, or actually in a couple of cases, where I was writing for an elite American publications, and I used the word "opposition," and the editor turned it into "dissidents." Because I was explained, opposition is when there is democracy, and dissidents is in the regimes like the Soviet Union. So if you could draw a little bit, explain that. And of course, given that, it pains me to say it, but given that you were nearly killed last May, clearly you believe and you hope in what you're doing. You would not be doing otherwise. So could you explain to us what is the state of the Russian opposition? What are the venues even available to it? And secondly why are you pursuing this road? 

Vladimir: Well, I think it's a very important distinction that you made between opposition and the `dissident` movement and, in fact, Boris Nemtsov said not a long time before his death, before he was killed, that he no longer considers himself an opposition leader but a dissident leader because, precisely what you said, the opposition usually sits in Parliament. In Russia, the opposition sits in prisons, or more often, unfortunately, in the cemeteries and that is a fact of life. But I think what keeps us going is a very simple fact, and I can speak certainly for myself, and I'm sure for many of my friends and colleagues. Russia is my country. I believe in it. I believe in its future. And I think the current regime is driving it into a dead end politically, economically, in terms of the state of society, in terms of its relations with the outside world. And I know there are millions of my compatriots, millions of people in Russia, even today, even despite everything that's happening who also believe in a different future for Russia. In a future based on respect for dignity and human rights, and democracy, and the rule of law, in political freedom, in good relations with our neighbors and the outside world at large. And these people have no political voice, they have no political representation, but I think they offer the best hope for the future development of Russia, and we have to do all we can to give them this political voice, and to support them, and to present this alternative, to present this different vision for our country's development. Sure, it's a very dangerous vocation to be in opposition to Putin's regime, and we've seen many `confirmation` of this. Soviet dissidents used to have this phrase, "The night is darkest before the dawn." And this past year has been, I think, especially dark with the assassination of Boris, with what happened to me, the attempted murder, and with many more jailings, and many more cases of oppression against those who disagree with the Kremlin, and many more threats that continue to be issued. So it has been a very dark year. But I believe that the night is darkest before the dawn, and I still believe that the values of freedom and justice will `prevail` in Russia. I believe that that day will come, and I believe that it is our moral duty, and my moral duty, to do everything we can to bring that day just a little bit closer. 

Leon: In practical terms, as I mentioned to you before we started, I see your name popping up in various interviews and one of them talked about Open Russia, the organization that you represent, extending its offers of expertise and funding. Could you give us an insight of how do you do it, how does that happen, and what hope there is for this? 

Vladimir: Sure. Well, we know perfectly well that elections in Putin's Russia are not real elections, that they just serve as a ritual held once every five or six years depending on Parliament or President to formalize the regime's hold on power. The opposition is, in most cases, not allowed to contest the elections, or in the rare cases when it is, it is suppressed and the vast administrative resources are used against it. However, we believe that boycotts do not work. We believe that we can use even this watered-down and `sham` electoral process that exists today in order to try to get our message across, our message based on democracy and rule of law and European values to as many people as we can. And also, as importantly, I think, to help those opposition candidates, especially young political activists, to gain some political experience by participating in these campaigns, to gain some name recognitions, and to gain some reputation for themselves. And this is why we, the Open Russia Movement, are planning to support 15 to 20 candidates for the State Duma, for the Law House of the Russian Parliament in the upcoming Duma election, or so-called election, by offering them, as you said, informational, legal, PR support, infrastructural support for their campaigns by making our experts, and our specialists available for them, to help them gain this experience and gain their name in this fight. And this is what we'll be doing, and we've tried already, in fact, last year, in 2015, in two different cases. One was the `municipal` election in St. Petersburg, and the other one was the regional election in Novosibirsk. We had in both cases a candidate whom Open Russia was backing, and in both cases our candidate came in second, was even officially more than 20% of the vote. And so another important goal is to show that however much the Kremlin likes to pretend that the democratic opposition has 1% or 2% support in Russia, this is simply not true even in the current `repressive` conditions. And I'm hopeful that we're going to show this again, this time on a national level in September of this year during the State Duma elections. And, of course, there will also come a day, and I think personally that it's not going to be that long away, when there'll be a real election in Russia. And I think we have to start preparing for it now and to start getting the people ready and prepared for it, and start helping people gain this experience that they will use when the real election comes, and this is what we're going to be doing starting this year. 

Leon: Thank you very much, Volodya. This is a good note to end. Thank you very much. 

Vladimir: Thank you very much. Happy to do this. 