https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IfZPQh5yXgE&ab_channel=Unpacked 
10:12
```
concession      n. 让步，妥协；特许权；<英>优惠价，减价；商铺；小摊卖的东西；认输  
enlist          v. （使）参军，（使）入伍；争取，谋取；赞助，支持
fortify         v. 筑防于，设要塞于；提高（食品）营养价值；使增强体质，使振奋精神；增强（感觉或态度）
hallmark        n. 特点；品质证明
pragmatic       adj. 实际的；实用主义的        
rampant         adj. 猖獗的；蔓延的；狂暴的；奔放的    
finale          n. 结局；终曲；最后一场；最后乐章；尾声
infiltrate      vt. 使潜入；使渗入，使浸润
prime           adj. 主要的；最好的；基本的
influx          n. 流入；汇集；河流的汇集处
rehabilitate    v. （监禁、戒毒或病后通过培训和治疗）使恢复正常生活；恢复……的权利，恢复……的名誉；使（建筑物或地区）恢复原状，修复      
clash           n. 冲突，交战；争论，争执；交锋，比赛；分歧，差异；（金属的）撞击声；（时间上的）冲突，撞期；（颜色、图案等的）不相配
expel           v. 把……开除（或除名）；驱逐；排出（空气、水、气体等）    
humble          adj. 谦逊的；简陋的；（级别或地位）低下的；不大的
stigma          n. 耻辱，污名；（植物花朵的）柱头；（病的）外在特征（或特点）；（皮肤上的）斑点，小斑；（基督教传统中的）圣痕 （stigmata）
exempt          adj. 被免除……的，获豁免的
rouse           v. <正式>唤醒，（使）醒来；激励，（使）振奋；激起（某种情感）；激怒，使激动；使（某事物）发生，引起；搅动（液体，尤指酿制中的啤酒）
arid            adj. 干旱的；不毛的，[农] 荒芜的
vehement        adj. 激烈的，猛烈的；热烈的
dilemma         n. （进退两难的）窘境，困境；二难推理，两刀论法
dedicate        v. 致力于，献身于；把（书、戏剧、音乐作品等）献给；为（建筑物或教堂）举行奉献（或落成）典礼；题献词
fervent         adj. 热心的；强烈的；炽热的；热烈的
fledgling       n. 无经验的人；刚会飞的幼鸟
``` 

David Ben Gurion - Israel's First Prime Minister | History of Israel Explained | Unpacked 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - David Ben Gurion. 

For many, the name likely `rouses` imagery of a bold revolutionary, an `idealistic` founder and well, an airport. Israel's first prime minister was a critical figure in the conception and realization of the nation but the magnitude of his impact can only be matched by his complexities, his clashes and his struggles. So here are the top `nuances` of David Ben Gurion's life and work that you might not have learned in history class. (upbeat music) 

David Ben-Gurion was known for his wide variety of ideas. A sort of Jewish Ben Franklin. A modern Leonardo da Vinci but what many people don't realize is that many of his ideas were borrowed from other people. He just helped make them a reality. So founding a Jewish state, that idea was actually popularized by Theodor Herzl. Ben-Gurion was `passionate` about the state, working as the leader of the pre-state `militia` known as the Hagana, negotiating with the British and preparing for an inevitable clash with the surrounding Arab nations. But the idea of a Jewish state started gaining `steam` around 1896, when Ben-Gurion was only 10. As a liberal socialist Ben-Gurion, certainly identified with the early political and economic policies of the `fledgling` country but he didn't invent these movements. Labor Zionism the idea of cultivating a national identity through a connection with the land, that credit goes to these guys, among others. Okay, so what does Ben-Gurion get credit for if the vast majority of his political accomplishments weren't started by him at all? Well he may not have started them but he sure did execute them. He took those dreams and turned them into actions. If Hertz was the `quarterback`, Ben-Gurion was the wide receiver running into the end zone. The early Zionist movement was closely `intertwined` with the Socialist spirit of the working class. A sort of political `peanut` butter and jelly if you will and Ben-Gurion was at the forefront of it all. In 1921, Ben-Gurion was elected secretary general of the Histadrut, transforming an organization of workers in what was then Palestine into a unified labor force. He saw that unity was the `backbone` of Zionism. This also helps new immigrants `acclimate` into Israeli society, giving them work and a sense of purpose. Ben-Gurion saw this `synergy` between the workers and the economy as essential to the country's development. Before the state was established, Jews in Palestine had three militias with very different military philosophies that often came into conflict. The Irgun, the Haganah and Lechi. Ben-Gurion led the Haganah which was far more diplomatic than the others. He was so committed to defense and restraint with his militia that he insisted on no `retaliation` for Arab attacks against civilians and strictly emphasized a self-defense only attitude. Where the Irgun picked fights with the British, Ben-Gurion's Haganah did all they could to maintain some sort of bond, in hopes of preserving diplomacy. When Britain enacted the 1939 White Paper calling for a Jewish home within a fully Palestinian state Ben-Gurion had serious problems, as the policy brought Jewish immigration practically to a halt at a time when it was essential. 

But despite the `dilemma`, he maintained diplomatic relations encouraging the Jewish population to join the British Army in World War II. He was famously quoted as saying, "We shall fight in the war against Hitler "as if there were no White Paper, "but we shall fight the White Paper as if there were no war" Then there was the highly controversial, arguably aggressive, Plan Daled, which was very uncharacteristic of Ben-Gurion. After the UN proposed a plan to partition the land into two separate states in 1947, the Jews of Palestine found themselves in a `dire` situation. Though they didn't get nearly as much land as they wanted the leaders accepted it. The Arab leaders on the other hand, rejected the plan completely, vowing to drive the Jews into the Mediterranean sea. Violence increased with thousands of fighters from nearby Arab nations, `infiltrating` Palestine and eventually establishing a `blockade`, stopping supplies from reaching the 100,000 Jews in Jerusalem. In March 1948, under Ben-Gurion's direction, the Haganah developed Plan Daled. Not plan A, not plan B, not even plan C but the Hebrew equivalent of plan D `as a last resort`. It was a controversial proposal to secure and `fortify` the borders of the Jewish sections of the newly partitioned land. Now keep in mind, land allocated for the Jewish state was tiny and almost `indefensible` given it's narrow borders. To help ensure its security, the Jewish forces decided to minimize the potential threat `imposed` by Arab villages in strategic locations. Plan Daled gave Israel the ability to establish the strategic defensive borders it needed but some historians also point to it as a factor that led to the Palestinian refugee issue that the world is still struggling with today. After declaring independence Ben-Gurion united the pre-state militias into a single defensive force, the IDF, but in doing so he also instituted a draft that to this day, sees most Jewish-Israeli 18 year olds serving for two to three years. With a national population of about 630,000 Jews at the time, a purely volunteer army would give Israel nowhere near enough manpower, to stand up to even one attacking nation, let alone five. But service as an `obligation` every Israel citizen would receive military training, in effect creating a people's army. That would even include women between the ages of 18 and 28 as long as they didn't have children. Today Israel's one of only eight countries that include women in the draft. On the other hand, Ben-Gurion allowed for the `exemption` of full-time students studying Torah from `enlisting` a policy that continues to be hotly debated today. 

Still by making it a people's army, Ben-Gurion created the most powerful force to unify the citizens of the new country, despite differences in the language, culture and level of `observance`. The Law of Return is one of the most transformative pieces of Israeli legislation, opening the door of citizenship to any Jew, no matter race, denomination or country of origin was a `hallmark` of the tiny new nation. Ben-Gurion was quite possibly the policy's biggest `champion`. He strongly believed that the influx of immigrants was essential to the new country's population and set immigration as a top priority. The Knesset, Israels parliament, `unanimously` approved the Law of Return in 1950, when Arab countries `expelled`, or encouraged their Jewish citizens to leave in `retaliation`. Israel declaring it's independence, the law allowed for no less than 700,000 Yemenite, Iraqi, Moroccan and other Mizrahi Jews to immigrate. Despite his enthusiasm for the Law of Return though, Ben-Gurion didn't have the greatest respect for this Mizrahi community and was concerned about their impact on Israel culture. Meanwhile he became frustrated when American Jewish communities, didn't immediately pack up and move to Israel. Obviously this didn't create many friends among American Zionists. But in the end, many Americans did come around. By the 1970s, American immigration to Israel reached a peak of 10,000 people annually. To this day, two to three thousand American immigrants arrive every year. After the end of World War II, there was much discussion whether Germany and other countries owed `reparations` for the `Holocaust`. Many survivors were `vehemently` opposed to reparations of any kind. To them, it implied that money could make up for the brutality, suffering theft, and mass murder. 

But Ben-Gurion recognized that there were realities to running a new vulnerable country. Shortages, and rationing were `rampant` and many survivors of the Nazi camps needed proper `rehabilitation`. Admitting Germany's guilt was a major `concession` but it would also aid in West Germany's agenda to more quickly become accepted by the western powers. Menachem Begin, another Israeli founder and Ben-Gurion's rival, `fervently` opposed the agreement, having suffered the loss of own parents in the Holocaust. Thousands of other survivors and children of survivors were similarly disgusted by the idea. Ben-Gurion responded with a more pragmatic argument. He said, "I don't want to run after a German and spit in his face. "I don't want to run after anybody. "I want to sit here and build here." In September 1952, he accepted a controversial billion dollars in `reparations`, an amount that today would be close to 10 billion dollars. On May 23rd, 1960, Ben-Gurion declared proudly to the Knesset and the world, that one of the worst Nazi war criminals, Adolf Eichmann had been arrested and brought to Israel to stand trial. Now you remember when Obama announced that we got Bin Laden? Take that and multiply it by like a zillion! Knowing Argentina was a haven for ex-Nazis Ben-Gurion had arranged for Mossad agents to capture Eichmann and bring him to Israel to stand trial. By the way, how this happened was super cool and you can either check out the movie Operation `Finale` or our video on the Eichmann trial. The trial wasn't just a forum to bring one of history's ruthless monsters to justice, it also opened the lid on the trauma that was the holocaust. Before the trial, survivors had mostly kept quiet. Rarely opening up about the horrors they had endured but Eichmann's trial helped bring that truth out as thousands of survivors finally opened up, overcoming the stigmas and survivor's guilt so many of them had endured after being free. On a deeper level, this trial was also a declaration that the Jewish people would no longer be `bullied`. United in their homeland, Israeli Jews were showing the world that they refused to be the helpless tortured victims of the past. Eichmann's trial was Ben-Gurion's way of establishing that once and for all. 

When Ben-Gurion finally retired from politics in 1970, he settled down in a small and `humble` kibbutz Sde Boker in the Negev, or `Southern` Israel. But one of the things he continued to advocate for in the final years of his life was developing the Negev desert. The former prime minister was insistent that one of the keys to Israel's future depended on the advancement of 4700 square miles of desert which is literally half of Israel's land mass. He felt it was a crucial test, which would lead to the development of technologies such as desalination of salt water, solar and wind power and understanding the vegetation of the `arid` climate that all would be essential for Israel's survival. Given that today technology is Israel's most developed industry, he just might have been onto something. David Ben-Gurion died of complications from a stroke on December 1st 1973, during the Yom Kippur War. Even though he had dedicated his life to Israel and for years worked through chaos as its head of state he valued simplicity and lived by that philosophy in his retirement. You can actually visit the Ben-Gurion home. A perfectly maintained freeze-frame of how he lived in the Negev. Property with no more than a few rooms. A testament to his modesty and simple life he loved. Thanks for watching, see you guys next week. (upbeat music) 