https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ilrq4z7x9Jo&ab_channel=BrianHoldsworth 
10:24
```  
doctrine        n. 教义，主义，信条；（政府政策的）正式声明
ideology        n. 意识形态，思想体系；<古>观念学；<古>空想
premise         n. 前提，假定；（常复数）商店、餐馆、公司等使用的房屋及土地；（常复数）上诉各项
distract        v. 使分心，使转移注意力；<古>使困惑，使迷惑
devastate       v. 毁坏，破坏；使极度震惊，使伤心欲绝
repulsive       adj. 排斥的；令人厌恶的；击退的；冷淡的
orthodox        adj. （观念、方法或行为）传统的，正统的；（人）正统派的，循规蹈矩的；东正教的，正教的（Orthodox）；（物）普通的，正常的
contempt        n. 轻视，蔑视；忽视，不顾；藐视法庭
imperial        adj. 帝国的，皇帝的；宏伟的，华丽的；专横的，飞扬跋扈的；（度量衡）英制的；<史>（纸张尺寸）（英国）762×559毫米的
denounce        v. 谴责，痛斥；检举，告发
infirmity       n. 虚弱；疾病；衰弱；缺点
oppress         v. 压迫，欺压；使压抑，使烦恼；（纹章）使（图记）部分模糊    
mandate         n. <法律>授权，委托；任期；命令，指令；托管权，委任统治权；账户代理书面委托    
utter           adj. 完全的，彻底的
competent       adj. 能干的，能胜任的；合格的，过得去的；精神正常的，智力无缺陷的；有决定权的；有法定资格的；活性的，（处于）感受态的
incompetent     adj. 无能力的，不胜任的；不合适的；不适当的；无力的
stigma          n. 耻辱，污名；（植物花朵的）柱头；<医>（病的）外在特征（或特点）；（皮肤上的）斑点，小斑；（基督教传统中的）圣痕 （stigmata）
lenient         adj. 宽大的；仁慈的
bewilder        vt. 使迷惑，使不知所措
intimidate      v. 恫吓，威胁
humiliate       v. 羞辱，使蒙羞
hysterical      adj. 歇斯底里的，异常兴奋的；<非正式>极为有趣的，极滑稽的；患癔病的；（笑声）疯狂失控的，不可抑制的
enunciate       vt. 发音；阐明；宣布
antagonist      n. 敌手；[解剖] 对抗肌；[生化] 拮抗物；反协同试剂
regime          n. （尤指独裁的）政府，政权；（机构、公司、经济等的）管理制度，组织方法；饮食起居制度，养生法
exacerbate      v. 使恶化，使加剧
condemn         v. 谴责，严厉指责；宣判，判决；使陷入（不愉快的境地）；宣布……不安全；证明（或表明）有罪
proliferate     vi. 增殖；扩散；激增
assert          vt. 维护，坚持；断言；主张；声称
militant        adj. 好战的
```

Why Fascists and Communists Should Get Along Better 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

When you're trying to diagnose the ills of society it's hard to know if you're isolating a symptom or a cause. and in the case of what I'm going to be talking about in this video. I think it's both. but as a symptom it's extremely concerning. and if allowed to continue it could be really hard to pull back from. Any `proliferation` of fascism or Nazism is something that most people would find concerning but what should be just as concerning is the growth of socialist or communist extremism which for some reason doesn't carry the same `stigma` and I think that's one of the first things that we have to `confront` if we're gonna be honest about facing the problem of `extremism`. We can't `denounce` just one version of it while being `lenient` of another. I think there are many reasons why communism hasn't been as aggressively denounced as fascism but one that stands out for me is that communism has never had to undergo its own Nuremberg trials. Now the Nuremberg trials were military tribunals the Allies used to `prosecute` the leaders of Nazi Germany for crimes against humanity. It was an opportunity for the entire world to get a full disclosure of the horrific actions of that pathological ideology. It stripped Nazism of the pomp and glamor of its political rallies and reduced it to its core ideals of `supremacy`, `oppression`, `imperialism`, and `genocide`. It was an utter `humiliation` for the people that installed and enable that political disorder to `devastate` the lives of untold millions. The defeat of the Nazi regime and the subsequent `denunciation` of its leaders through the Nuremberg trials created such a stigma for this `repulsive` creed that only the most isolated people would dare to promote it in public. But communism hasn't suffered that same stigma. For example when I visited Berlin at the site of the Berlin Wall I discovered that you could buy hammer and sickle emblazoned t-shirts at the very spot where innocent people were gunned down trying to escape the `oppressive` regime that that symbol represents. But you would be hard-pressed to find t-shirts with fascist symbols `emblazoned` on them in shops anywhere let alone at popular tourist destinations. Communism has never had to face its Nuremberg `humiliation` but that's not for a lack of evidence that should persuade any reasonable person of goodwill to hold it in similar `contempt`. Communist regimes, leaders, and thinkers are responsible for more deaths, either through `willful` incompetence or `deliberate` oppression, than any other political framework in human history and we celebrate it in tourist shops as if it's a harmless `novelty`. So when so-called anti-fascist groups like an Antifa characterized themselves as being merely opposed to fascism and nothing else, I get a little `vexed` because even a casual glance in their direction reveals that they're actually a `militant` communist gang presenting themselves as the essential solution to fascism. For a little historical context, Antifa was founded by the German Communist Party which was running against Hitler's National Socialist Party in the early 1930s. Now the Nazis employed a gang of `thugs` who were famously known as the brown shirts to `intimidate` German voters in order to support them in the election. 

Unsurprisingly the German Communist Party employed the same tactics and that's where we get an Antifa from. They're the communist equivalent of Hitler's brown shirts. But if their only `mandate` is to oppose fascism then what's the problem right? Well the problem is that they have a very broad and loosely defined understanding of what fascism is. That's why they aggressively protested events like Ben Shapiro speaking at UC Berkeley. If they can label someone like Ben Shapiro, an Orthodox Jew, as a Nazi fascist then virtually anyone is at risk of similar `condemnation`. Dartmouth visiting scholar Marc Bray who wrote the Anti-Fascist Handbook was recently asked at one of the speaking engagements where he was promoting his book how a person avoids being labeled a fascist so as to avoid the violent `reprisals` he was defending in his speech and in his book. His response was to admit that defining a fascist was really difficult and then he went on to not answer the question or provide any objective criteria that categorizes a person as a fascist. 

It's worth noting too that defenders of Antifa violence like Marc Bray justify their stance based on the `premise` that fascist activity is now a `prolific` danger, especially in countries like the United States, but if that were true you'd think that his speaking tour, promoting his ideals of violence against anyone that fits his loose understanding of fascism, would have faced some seriously violent opposition from the fascists that are so prevalent. But he didn't and in fact I couldn't find any news reports that said that there was any kind of protest against his violent `espousals`. And yet speakers like Jordan Peterson and Ben Shapiro have had to endure constant `antagonistic` protests from groups like an Antifa so who exactly is it that we should be worried about? Now this `hostility` between communists and fascists has always been kind of `bewildering` to me because even though they will insist that they are `diametrically` opposed to each other even a cursory understanding of these two political `doctrines` and the historical implementation of them will `poke` some pretty big holes in that `assertion`. And that's weird because we've always been taught that they are polar opposites. Fascism on the extreme right and Communism on the extreme left but polar opposites don't tend to agree on as many things as socialism and fascism do. Like with any other spectrum that we know of, if you take whatever exists at opposite ends of that spectrum, what you should find is a `dichotomy` that has absolutely nothing in common. So for example, take the grayscale spectrum - on opposite ends you have black and white and these two colors or `intensities` of light have nothing in common with each other. White reflects all light and black absorbs all light. Similarly if communism and fascism were truly polar opposites, we shouldn't be able to find anything in common between them but what we do find is that they have quite a lot in common, including: With so much in common you'd think that they'd have more reasons to just get along. Setting aside the tongue-in-cheek for a second, this is actually a serious `symptom` if you're trying to diagnose the health of a society. Whenever extremist political ideologies like these have gained momentum, historically, it has been because of some growing `infirmity` in society. Now my guess is the number of people who are turning to extremist political ideologies is still a small minority. but what is so alarming is that even with so little support, look at the amount of attention they demand and the amount of disruption they can cause. And so we're `distracted` from the things that we should be focusing on and it creates a climate of fear which `exacerbates` the reasons that people are becoming so polarized to begin with. 

Prosperity of the middle class is what has always kept this kind of thing at the `fringe`, but with growing political corruption and crony capitalism people are starting to get `screwed` and out of their poverty they are turning to extremism for an answer. So what's the solution? Fix the system! Create a more just economy, restore confidence in the media and other forms of accountability, and put your iPhone down for long enough to hear your own thoughts rather than this `hysterical` feedback loop that we all seem to be stuck in. Go outside, have a real conversation with a person or two and look them in the eye when you speak to them and resolve to make whatever personal improvements you need to make to interrupt the advancement of this `poisonous` disease. Thank you guys for watching that if you enjoyed that then please like it and share it and subscribe and come follow along for more content and if you want to support the making of these videos, then please consider supporting the business that makes them possible. 

Holds Worth Design is a digital marketing and communication company that specializes in web design, print design, branding, videography, and more, and this is with a special emphasis on churches and ministries as well so if you know somebody that needs those services and please consider passing that along to them and check out the website which is www.holdsworthdesign.com. 