https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYHsRFiBJX0&ab_channel=AnimatedBooks
7:51
```
monstrous       adj. 不公正道德的，残忍的；巨大的，庞大的；丑陋的，骇人的  
howl            v. （狗、狼等）嗥叫，长嚎；（因疼痛、愤怒、开心等）大声叫喊；（风）怒号，呼啸；怒吼，怒声要求；嚎哭  
furnish         v. 为（房间或房屋）配备家具；提供，供应  
bend            v. 弯曲（身体关节）；使弯曲，弄弯；使弯曲，弄弯；（路）转弯；歪曲（事实）；篡改；屈从；系，缚（帆，缆绳）    
pale            adj. 苍白的；无力的；暗淡的  n. 前哨；栅栏；范围
asylum          n. 庇护；收容所，救济院    
seduce          v. 诱奸，勾引；引诱，吸引  
fright          n. 惊骇，恐怖；恐怖的经历；<旧>不整洁的人，奇怪、丑陋的东西
intercept       vt. 拦截；截断；窃听
blow            v. （风）刮，吹；（用嘴）吹气；用力呼吸，喘息；吹响，吹奏；毁掉，炸毁；使（车胎）爆炸，使漏气；（保险丝）烧断，熔化；擤（鼻子）；浪费，挥霍（金钱）；出错；断送（良机）；泄露，暴露；<美，非正式> 迅速离开（某地）；用力投（球）；（用于表示惊讶、气恼等）；开花，在开花；（鲸鱼）喷水；吹制（玻璃）；把蛋清和蛋黄从（蛋壳）中吹出；（苍蝇）产卵于
lunatic         adj. 疯狂的；精神错乱的；愚蠢的
wreck           n. 破坏；失事；残骸；失去健康的人
gallop          n. 疾驰；飞奔
evade           v. 规避，逃避；难倒，使困惑；未能（被某人）获得；（尤指违法犯罪后）逃脱，躲开（追捕）    
dawn            v. 变得明朗，开始清楚；破晓，开始
wagon           n. （一般由马拉的）四轮运货车；<英>（无顶的）铁路货车车厢，车皮；旅行轿车（station wagon 的简称）；<美>（用作食品货摊的）手推车；儿童玩具小车；（吉卜赛人或马戏团用的）大篷车；<爱尔兰，非正式>令人不快的女人
```

DRACULA BY BRAM STOKER // ANIMATED BOOK SUMMARY 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Jonathan Harker is an English `solicitor`, or lawyer, traveling to the castle of Count Dracula in Transylvania because the `Count` is buying Carfax Abbey in England. Harker records details of the trip in his journal for his `fiancée`, Mina Murray. His journey to Dracula's castle is frightening, with madly `galloping horses` pulling the `careening` coach over steep mountain roads and `evading` `snarling` wolves. Count Dracula is a pale, aged man dressed in black. His enormous castle is richly `furnished`, dark, and empty. Wolves `howl` outside. He and Harker talk for a while, but at `dawn` Dracula quickly leaves. Harker is shaving when Dracula suddenly appears behind him. Startled, Harker cuts himself, and realizes the Count has no reflection in the mirror. Harker grabs a crucifix and Dracula backs down, but breaks the mirror. Harker realizes he is a prisoner in this castle. One night Harker sees Count Dracula crawling up the outer wall of the castle. Then Harker encounters three ghostly women, who are about to `seduce` him when the Count chases them out. Harker finds Dracula sleeping in one of many wooden boxes in the `vaults` below the castle and realizes the Count is a supernatural monster. The boxes are later filled with earth, nailed shut, and loaded onto `wagons` by `gypsies`. The Count is leaving for England and Harker cannot stop him. Jonathan Harker's fiancée, Mina Murray, and her dear friend Lucy Westenra exchange letters. Lucy is engaged to Arthur Holmwood. Dr. Seward, one of Lucy's rejected suitors, runs the `lunatic` `asylum` beside Carfax Abbey and has a dangerous patient named Renfield. Mina has not heard from Jonathan in a month. Lucy has resumed her childhood habit of walking in her sleep. Dr. Seward notes that Renfield is capturing spiders, flies, and `sparrows` and eating them raw. During a storm, the Demeter runs aground in the `harbor`. Only the captain is on board and he is dead, tied to the wheel and holding a `crucifix`. 

A huge dog leaps down from the deck and runs towards the town. 

The cargo consists of fifty wooden boxes filled with earth. Mina discovers Lucy sleepwalking up on a hill. A tall, dark figure with white face and red eyes `bends` over her. Lucy has `puncture` marks on her throat and grows very weak. Dr. Seward says she suffers from a lack of blood. Mina finally gets word that Jonathan is seriously ill in a hospital in Budapest, Hungary. She goes to him and they are married in the hospital. Seward's colleague, Dr. Abraham Van Helsing, arrives. He is shocked by Lucy's `hideous` deathly appearance and wounded throat. Van Helsing gives her repeated blood transfusions from her `fiancé` and suitors and places `garlic` flowers in her room. Mina and Jonathan Harker return from Hungary. Renfield escapes the asylum and becomes violent. Van Helsing believes Lucy is dying and sends for Arthur Holmwood, her fiancé. The `monstrous` Lucy behaves `seductively` towards him, but then collapses and briefly looks like herself again. Arthur kisses her just before she dies. Jonathan Harker believes he has seen a younger `Count` Dracula in London. Van Helsing places garlic flowers and a `crucifix` in Lucy's `coffin` and tells Seward they will have to remove her heart and head. They soon learn that the crucifix has been stolen from the coffin. Days later, a newspaper reports that several small children have gone missing. Some return with injured throats and stories of a "bloofer lady" (a beautiful lady) who took them. A horrified Mina reads Jonathan's journal. Van Helsing contacts Mina to learn more about Lucy's illness and Mina shows him the journal. Harker agrees to help defeat Count Dracula. Van Helsing says Lucy is now a `vampire`. He takes Holmwood and another former suitor, Quincey Morris, to destroy her. They see her in vampire form dragging a half-dead child but she escapes them. Later, when she is again in her coffin, Arthur – her fiancé – `stakes` her through the heart. She shrieks and thrashes but soon looks like her normal self again. Van Helsing cuts off her head and she is finally at peace. 

Dr. Seward realizes that Renfield's violent episodes are somehow linked to the Count. Harker learns that the fifty large boxes of earth on board the `wrecked` Demeter were delivered to Carfax Abbey – Dracula's new property. Van Helsing reminds the others that they are men of science, while Dracula is a `cursed` monster. They take garlic, stakes, crucifixes, communion wafers, and holy water to Carfax Abbey. But it is `overrun` with rats and Dracula is not there. Harker notices that Mina is `pale` and weak. She has dreamed of a frightening `mist` that seemed to have two red eyes. Renfield has been badly beaten at the asylum. He says Dracula came to his window and Renfield invited him in, but when Dracula returned Renfield refused him and was `smashed` to the ground. Fearing for Mina, Van Helsing and Seward go to the Harkers' apartments. They find Jonathan unconscious and Mina being forced to drink Dracula's blood. The men raise crucifixes and Dracula vanishes as a mist, but Mina is entirely under his control now – just as Lucy was. Van Helsing tr sylvanian earth so the vampire cannot hide in them, but only forty-nine of the fifty boxes are there. Hoping to use the connection between Mina and the vampire, Van Helsing `hypnotizes` her at dawn. She states that Dracula is asleep on an anchored ship. Dracula means to escape to Transylvania on the Czarina Catherine, which has already sailed. The men take the train across Europe to `intercept` the ship. Mina goes with them so they can use her to track the Count, but he breaks the link. The vampire hunters decide to go to Dracula's castle and wait for him there. Approaching the castle, Mina becomes increasingly `depraved` just as Lucy did. Van Helsing draws a ring around her in the dirt and places communion `wafers` in it. The brides of Dracula approach but the ring and wafers stop them. Van Helsing goes alone to the castle, where he destroys the brides. The Count, closed up in a box, is being brought to the castle in a wagon by `gypsies`. In the wild chase the box falls out and the lid comes off, revealing Count Dracula. In the struggle, Quincey Morris is killed but so is Count Dracula. His body turns to dust and blows away, freeing all of them to live in peace. 