https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYa8nOB2_3s&ab_channel=RickSteves%27Europe
26:00
```
assassin    n. 刺客，暗杀者
rugged      adj. 崎岖的；坚固的；高低不平的；粗糙的
yield       v. 产生（收益、效益等），产生（结果）；出产（天然产品，农产品，工业产品）；屈服，让步；放弃，让出；给（大路上的车辆）让路；（受压）活动，弯曲，折断；<正式>被……替代；请（某人）讲话；停止争论
bare        adj. 空的；赤裸的，无遮蔽的    
huddle      v. 蜷缩，依偎；（私下）开会，（暗中）碰头；（美式足球队员）靠拢（听取指示）；草率做成 n. （尤指杂乱地）挤在一起的人（或物品、建筑）；私下商议，秘密碰头；（美式足球）聚拢听取指示的一群队员；<旧>混乱，杂乱
worship     n. 崇拜；礼拜；尊敬
reclaim     vt. 开拓；回收再利用；改造某人，使某人悔改  
fortify     v. 筑防于，设要塞于；提高（食品）营养价值；使增强体质，使振奋精神；增强（感觉或态度）
ambience    n. 气氛，布景；周围环境 
famine      n. 饥荒，饥馑；匮乏，短缺；<古>饥饿 
recede      vi. 后退；减弱
hedge       n. 树篱；防范措施，防备手段
exhilaration   n. 兴奋，欢欣      
motif       n. 主题；主旨；图形；意念；基序，模体
cruise      n. 巡游，乘船游览
fascinate  
blossom     n. （树木的）花，花簇；开花，花期
fare        n. 交通费用；乘客；饭菜；常见的东西；供大众使用的东西（尤指娱乐活动）      
dismantle   v. 拆开，拆卸；废除，取消；去掉……的覆盖物
botany      n. 植物学；（特定地区的）植物（生态）
plateau     n. 高原；平稳期，停滞期；高原印第安人；托盘
trespass    v. 非法侵入（他人的土地或财产）；做错事；违反道德（或社会法规）    
drizzle     vt. （毛毛雨似地）洒；（在食物上）浇（液态调料）
vibrant     adj. 充满生机的，生气勃勃的；鲜艳的；醒目的；洪亮的；强劲的；颤抖的，震动的  
dwindle     vi. 减少；变小  
heave       v. 用力举起，使劲拖；（用力）扔，抛；起伏；发出（叹息）；恶心，呕吐；人头攒动，挤满（人）；用绳将（船）拉动（或往高处拖动）
precious    adj. 宝贵的，珍贵的；珍视的，重要的；珍稀的，珍奇的；<非正式>（表示气愤）宝贝似的；（言行）矫揉造作的，过分讲究的；<美，非正式>可爱的，讨人喜欢的
humble      adj. 谦逊的；简陋的；（级别或地位）低下的；不大的
advent      n. 出现，到来，问世；基督降临节（Advent）；基督降临，基督复临（Advent）
echo        n. 回声；重复，附和，共鸣；相似之处，再现；回声插入；（话语结构和内容的）重复；（桥牌）回声信号
erode       v. 侵蚀，腐蚀；削弱，降低
scant       adj. 不足的；缺乏的；勉强够的
anticipate   v. 预料，预期；预见，预计（并做准备）； 期盼，期望； 先于……做，早于……行动；在期限内履行（义务），偿还（债务）；提前使用
sparse      adj. 稀疏的；稀少的
slender     adj. 细长的；苗条的；微薄的    
intrigue    v. 激起……的兴趣，引发……的好奇心；密谋
formidable  adj. 可怕的，令人敬畏的；（形状、数量）巨大的；难对付的  
excavate    vt. 挖掘；开凿
consequent  adj. 随之发生的，由此引起的；（河流，山谷）顺向的
engulf      vt. 吞没；吞食，狼吞虎咽  
desolate    adj. 荒无人烟的，荒凉的；凄凉的，孤独忧伤的    
antique     adj. 古老的，年代久远的；过时的，古董的；古风的，古式的
```

The Best of West Ireland: Dingle, Galway, and the Aran Islands 

webvtt kind: captions language: en 

hi, i'm rick steves, and this time we're exploring the best of western ireland. and we're starting about as west as you can get, on the aran islands, where, as the people here say, "the next parish over is boston," right?that's right. 

Ireland, especially its west, has a unique charm where its `rugged` natural beauty and its `vibrant` traditions can be seen and actually felt. we'll delve into the best of the west, not polished and on a museum shelf but wonderfully raw and unrefined. After imagining this island's misty past, old as the pyramids, we enjoy plenty of traditional irish music, from a foot-stomping small-town dance show to local pubs where every night's a music fest. we explore the biggest city of with `the west coast`, hang from a dramatic cliff, and eat really well, all with my favorite travel partners, my kids, andy and jackie, and my wife, anne. ireland lies at the far west of europe, and we're exploring the far west of ireland. starting on the remote aran islands, we `cruise` to galway, hike the rugged burren and `marvel` at the cliffs of moher, before venturing to dingle, and finishing on great blasket island. 

We're beginning here on inishmore. at eight miles long and two miles wide, it's the largest of the three aran islands. it's also the most populated, interesting and visited. inishmore's main attraction is the 2,000-year-old fortress of dun aengus, which hangs `precariously` on the edge of a cliff 300 feet above the atlantic. the `concentric` walls of this mysterious celtic fort are 13 feet thick and 10 feet high. as an added defense, effective even today, the fort is ringed with a commotion of spiky stones called `frisian` soldiers. sticking up like lances, they're named after ancient `ldiers` who used a wall of spears to stop a charging `cavalry`. little by little, as the cliff `erodes`, the walls of this circular fort fall into the sea below. dun aengus can be mobbed by day-trippers. but since we spent the night, we're here early, and the place is all ours. i make a point to be all alone here, where the crashing waves below seem to say, "you've come to the very edge of europe. " 

Kilronan is the only real town on the aran islands, but it's still just a village with a handful of shops, pubs, restaurants and b bs. Kilronan `huddles` around its pier where groups of backpackers wash ashore with the landing of each ferry. bring cash. there are no atms on the island. the islands are a gaeltacht -- or gaelic-speaking area -- a kind of national park for ireland's traditional culture. while the islanders speak english for visitors, they chat among themselves in this old irish language. [ speaking in irish ] like all gaeltachts, kilronan has an abundance of folk traditions and music. the ragus dance show gives visitors an intimate look at irish hard shoe, or step dancing, accompanied by traditional irish instruments. if you were here in earlier generations, you'd see step dances like these at a country crossroads, with neighbors dancing around a fire to whatever instruments showed up. [ cheers and applause ] 

Kilronan is a `springboard` for island exploration. renting bikes is safe, inexpensive and scenic. Pony carts, while pricey, are more romantic. and shared minibuses, which await the arrival of each ferry, provide cheap guided tours for a quick and efficient look at the island's sights and a chance to get to know and learn from a colorful local guide. We've `snared` a minibus for our family. anne, andy and jackie are joining me for a tour with thomas o'neil, who's lived on the island all his life. [ speaking in irish ] that's in irish now. bíodh lá. it's a nice day. we're taking the coast road on the way to the -- up to the end of the island. it's a nice day, huh? couldn't be any better, huh? 

800 islanders live in 14 `hamlets` with three elementary schools and three churches. Many families own small `detached` fields where `they keep a few cows.` Sheep are too much trouble. there's a stark beauty about these islands and the simple lives its inhabitants eke out of six inches of topsoil and a mean sea. `Precious` little of the land is productive. Until the `advent` of tourism, people made a `precarious` living from fishing and farming. they're shifting them now from field to field. he's going half a mile with them maybe to another field. the fields are so scattered here. the rocky fields are small, divided by hundreds of miles of dry, stone wall. these walls are built in a way that allows gates to be made in them wherever the farmer wants. when a farmer needs to move his livestock, he can `dismantle` and rebuild the walls `easily`. 

I'm going to knock this wall down now. this is the way they do it. if i had cattle now, when it's down to the ground, the cattle would walk in and, when they're inside, we build it up again. we're not `trespassing` here. This is thomas's field and there's plenty of work to be done while the sun's out. that's my hay there now. that's okay. jackie, come on, help me with. . . andy, can you help me? so, you stacked it up `anticipating` rain. right? that's right. it's wet. and i will have to `scatter` it around to dry, to dry it before i put it in the shed. rick: okay, so tonight this will be dry? thomas: yes, tonight this will be dry. rick: and tomorrow, it's `weetabix` for the cows. tomorrow? no, i won't use it until winter. 

Well, thomas managed to trick my entire family into an afternoon of labor. but, in return, we made a friend and learned about the hay and gates of `inishmore`. 

a couple of centuries ago when the english took the best parts of ireland in the east, they told the catholic locals to go to hell or go to connemarra, poor land out here in the west. over time, the english even took most of the west, but they never reached these remote `aran` islands. today those desperate days are long gone as ireland enjoys one of europe's hottest economies. to feel the pulse of today's ireland, we're heading for the mainland and the biggest city of the west, galway. for the first time the irish are making as much money as the english. and you feel the boom time in galway. with 60,000 people, it's a lively university town with one of the youngest populations in all of europe. 

According to local tradition, galway's name tells its story. gal is an old irish word for foreigner. that would make galway "town of the foreigners. " it was just a medieval fishing village until the 1200s when the english came. these foreigners tossed out the irish and built a wall to `fortify` their town. the `dispossessed` irish, now outside the wall, called the town galway, town of foreigners. the spanish arch, where spanish ships would unload their cargo 400 years ago, is a reminder of the trading importance galway once enjoyed. the town's tiny museum is `humble`. but if it's fragments of old galway you're looking for, this is where they're kept. while the town has a long and interesting history, its british `overlords`, who ruled here until 1922, had little interest i`n preserving its heritage`. `consequently`, little from old galway survives. this rare remaining bit of its once `formidable` wall is now `engulfed` in a modern shopping mall. and the 400-year-old `fortified` homes of the local nobility -- this one's now a bank -- are now swallowed up in galway's commercial hubbub. eyre square, downtown galway's central park, is a popular hangout. it contains the john f. kennedy park, established in memory of the irish-american president who visited here in 1963, just a few months before he was assassinated. the river corrib cuts through the center of town. salmon run up the river most of the summer. fishermen book long in advance to get half-day appointments for a casting spot. what galway lacks in sites, it makes up for in `ambience`. spend an afternoon wandering its harbor area and feel the fishing village it used to be, or just `stroll` its streets with their delightful mix of colorful facades and youthful crowds. from galway, it's just an hour's drive to the `burren`, an `intriguing` 50-square-mile limestone plateau. the burren is so `barren` that when cromwell invaded this part of ireland in the 1650s, his disappointed surveyor described it as "a `savage` land "yielding neither water enough to drown a man nor a tree to hang him, nor soil enough to bury him. " but he wasn't much of a `botanist`. local guide shane connelly loves to show how the burren is a unique and thriving ecosystem. we're here in early july, the best season for flowers. . . . 

all this rare `botany`, the orchids, the dryas octapetala, the heathers, wild thyme, the smallest wild rose in ireland, over 600 varieties of plants. rick: let's take a close look. shane: there's a lovely example of a geranium. bloody cranesbill. you see it in june, july. that's why it's called the bloody cranesbill. see the seed head here? in the shape of a crane's beak and that's what goes a bloody color, not the blossom here. when the blossoms fall off, that's the red sepals. now there's a lovely example of the potentilla, four-petaled, unusual for its family. right beside it yet to come out is a st. john's wort. that's slender st. john's wort. it comes out for st. john's day, the 24th of june, so hence the name st. john's wort. the burren supports the greatest diversity of plants in ireland. like nowhere else, mediterranean and arctic wildflowers bloom side by side. what you're looking at here is foliage of the mountain avens, dryas octapetala. it's a plant of the tundra. this area was tundra. it has disappeared. this is still here, in other words, it came with the glacier. also we're looking at the mediterranean orchid, the heat-spotted orchid. it came with the land bridge and survived the changes. there you have it. a plant from that climate, that landscape, beside a plant from the mediterranean. 

wander for some quiet time with the wildflowers. `limestone`, created from layers of sea mud, is the basis of the `burren`. the earth's crust `heaved` it up and the glaciers swept it bare, dropping `boulders` as they `receded`. the burren is also rich in mysterious ancient sites. this is the portal dolmen. four hundred years ago, locals thought this was a druid's altar. four thousand years ago, it actually was a grave, covered by a now long-gone mound of dirt. the western edge of the burren is marked by the cliffs of moher. a visit here offers one of ireland's great natural `thrills`. 

for five miles, the dramatic cliffs soar as high as 650 feet above the atlantic ocean. while i wouldn't recommend this,`thrill seekers` find a special peace all alone here at the edge of ireland. you'll find yourself in a dramatic world where the only sounds are the waves, the wind, and the `gulls`, playing in the `updrafts`. 

in ireland, you drive on the left. on narrow roads like these, take your time. everybody works together in a scenic do-si-do up and over the mountain. with the help of a good map, i often take the slow, more memorable route. the dramatic connor pass leads to the scenic southwest tip of ireland, dingle peninsula. over 100 inches of rain a year give this area its famous 40 shades of green. dingle `peninsula` offers an ideal mix of far-and-away beauty, archaeological wonders and `desolate` walks or bike rides, all within convenient reach of its main town. my irish dreams have long been set here on this `sparse` but lushly carpeted peninsula. the people of dingle are close to the land. when i asked a local if he was born here, he thought for a second and said, "no, it was about six miles down the road. " when i asked if he had lived here all his life, he said, "not yet. " dingle is so traditionally irish because it's another gaeltacht, a region where the irish culture survives, `subsidized` by the government. while english is always there, the signs, menus and songs often come in irish, or gaelic, first. teenagers from ireland's big cities come here for summer camp, filling old-time school rooms to learn the traditional language and irish ways. 

[ speaking in irish ] and here, irish songs are sung in irish. [ singing in irish ] and old churches do double duty as concert halls where those enthusiastic about traditional music share their art. ♪♪ [ applause ] 

the town of dingle is the perfect home base for peninsula explorations. it's just large enough to have all the necessary tourist services and a steady beat of irish folk music. although a popular tourist destination, dingle still has a relaxed feel. this is a place where the fish and the farm still matter. a faint whiff of burning peat fills its streets. tractor tracks dirty the main drag. and 40 fishing boats still sail from its harbor. like any town with tourism in ireland, dingle has an abundance of b&amp;bs. the captain's house b&amp;b is a shipshape place fit for an admiral in the town center. its homey peat-fire lounge is perfect for a cup of tea. guests enjoy comfy rooms. . . . . . and a magnificent breakfast. mary, whose mother ran a guest house back before dingle was discovered, loves her work. anticipating a big sightseeing day, anne's enjoying another slice of irish soda bread. and for jackie's breakfast, it's a kipper. 500 years ago, dingle, with its ideal harbor, was a busy seaport. it was a gateway for trade with spain, just a five-day sail south. like galway, it was a `fortified` english town surrounded by irish `peasants`. dingle is filled with shops showing off local crafts. at lisbeth mulcahy's, you can buy traditional woven wear right off the loom. and the west kerry craft guild, a co-op selling the work of local artists, is fun even if you're just browsing. the town has restaurants to please every palate, andy a jackie's included. they're eating kid-friendly at the local diner. we found it's smart in small towns to let the kids have some time on their own, to deal with the menus and foreign money. they enjoy a break from mom and dad, and vice versa. anne and i are dining adults only, elegantly at a top-end dingle restaurant. the beginish serves modern european `fare` in an elegant georgian setting. the kitchen creates beautifully presented dishes that the kids just wouldn't appreciate. anne and i dine confident that jackie and andy are enjoying their meal as much as we're enjoying ours. 

locals claim that dingle, with 52 pubs for its 1300 residents, has more watering holes per capita than any town in ireland. visit several until you find just the `ambience` you're looking for. there's live music galore. or, for good conversation, you have some fascinating options. foxy john's is one of several dingle pubs with a dual identity. By day, it's a handy hardware store. after hours, a pub. it's great for craic. that's pub lingo for conversation. if you sit at a table, you'll be left alone. stand or sit at the bar, and you're `engulfed` in conversation with new friends. and if you need a hammer or some `hedge` clippers, the `bartender` is there to help. if you're pub hopping, keep an eye on the clock. last call for drinks where we're heading is half 11. that's 11:30. o'flaherty's is reliably good for traditional music, or trad, as it's called in ireland. 

♪♪ [ applause ] tim collins, dingle's retired police chief, is an amateur `archaeologist` who takes my tour groups around when they're in town. today his group is really small, just me and andy. on this trip around the peninsula, andy is learning some history the way i like to, from a local. dingle peninsula is like an open-air museum. it's dotted with more than 2,000 monuments dating back to 4,000 b. c. some of ireland's ancient and complex history can be sorted out by visiting these sites. now, this is actually known as dunbeg promontory fort. it's one of about 2,200 archaeological monuments we have on the dingle peninsula. this site was built by the early settlers, about 500 b. c. that is the date for it. it has been `excavated` about 25 years ago because half of it has actually fallen into the sea due to coastal erosion. i suppose there's no part of ireland that has got so many archaeological monuments intact as you have got in the dingle peninsula. and probably that's due to the fact that this area has never been industrialized, thankfully so far. 

this remote peninsula was also busy during early christian times. the gallarus oratory was a church built without mortar about 1200 years ago. shaped like an upturned boat, its finely-fitted walls, stone without mortar, still keep out the rain. in the depth of the dark ages, monks fled the chaos of continental europe. they sailed to the far fringes of the known world, settling in places like this, dingle peninsula. living in monastic communities of stone igloo-type huts, they kept literacy alive for western civilization. in fact, charlemagne, who ruled much of europe in the year 800, imported monks from ireland to be his `scribes`. 

tim: this was the typical layout of these early christian monasteries, several stone-type igloos and a church within a fortified wall. the inner wall divided the community into two sections, one for work and one for worship. this monument now actually is a thousand years older than what we have been already looking at. 

it's a `slab` cross erected by the celts about 500 years b. c. , red sandstone, and they decorated this stone with these celtic `motifs` or these concentric circles which run through the front of the stone and that remain out of the sixth century a. d. when the christians came and christianized the cross by superimposing this greek cross on the upper part of the old celtic monument. thus explains the two traditions on the one slab cross, the celtic and the christian. when the english came in the 12th century, they replaced the old monastic settlements, like the one we just saw, with their own churches in an attempt to centralize their control. during that era, this ruined church was the center of worship for the peninsula. 

and here on dingle peninsula, the soil itself reveals the struggles of the irish people. now, in prehistory, the soil here was worthless, very barren. this soil here we're looking at was actually made by the hard work and endeavors of the peasants that actually had to reclaim this barren land by going to the beach and drawing up seaweed and sand to augment the very barren soil that was there to grow their potatoes and their crops. so there's seaweed and sand? seaweed and sand mixture and some peat, which has developed into a `clay` over the centuries. `patch by patch`, they created fertile fields for potatoes, climbing ever higher up the hillside. in 1845, they planted. but a blight swept across ireland and nothing grew. the potatoes `rotted` in the ground. for the next four years, ireland starved. the village of dunquin, with its many abandoned homes, is a reminder that ireland's population was `decimated` by the great potato famine. 

Just off the shore is great blasket island. the story of its tiny community, just `a ghost town` today, gives an insight into the soul of ireland. taking a boat ride there is a highlight for anyone interested in traditional irish culture. and, back in dingle, our family's doing just that. weather permitting, the "peig sayer" zips to blasket island in 40 minutes, unless `fungie` comes out to play. there he is right there! wow! fungie, europe's friendliest dolphin and dingle's most famous resident, playfully greets boats as they come and go. even in today's `drizzle` and `choppy` seas, the boat ride to great blasket island is both `exhilarating` and `scenic`. The landing is as tenuous today as it was for the original islanders. just a little nook along its rocky coastline provides enough protection to land a small boat. wandering through the scant remains of their homes, we try to imagine the life these hardy islanders led. this village was about the only one in ireland to escape the `famine` because they harvested the sea rather than potatoes. forming the most traditional irish community of the 20th century, the blasket islanders became a symbol of `antique` gaelic culture. the island's population peaked at 160, then dwindled until the government moved the last handful of residents to the mainland in 1953. each family had a cow, a few sheep, and a tiny garden. there was no priest, no doctor, and no pub. they heated their humble homes with `peat` cut from the high ridge and fed their families with fish. the blasket islanders may be gone, but their story, which in many ways echoes the story of ireland as a whole, lives on. 

so rich in its history, people, and scenery, ireland, rain or shine, it's a fine place to experience. thanks for joining us. i'm rick steves. keep on travelin'. 