https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h14j6GKFf60&ab_channel=ArtFundUK
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 


(♪ AMBIENT GUITAR) The American painter Georgia O'Keeffe is best known for her paintings of flowers or the photographs of her as a nude model. This new exhibition at Tate Modern aims to explode the myths around O'Keeffe as a painter of feminine subjects, and instead shows her to be one of the most `pioneering` artists of the 20th century. This is a fantastic and rare opportunity to see O'Keeffe's work, as not one of her paintings is currently held in a British public collection. The show marks the centenary since her `debut` in New York in 1916, and brings together more than 100 of her artworks from all over the world. For many people, this is going to be the star of the show. It's called Jimson Weed/ White Flower Number 1, painted in 1932. For me, it's an incredible example of O'Keeffe's ability to take something really ordinary, in this case, a simple nightshade flower, and transform it through an `epic` change of scale and really close-looking into something extraordinary and `beguiling`. It's also famous because this picture sold just a couple of years ago for more than $44 million, making it the single most expensive picture by a woman artist ever sold at `auction`. Born in 1887 to dairy farmers in rural Wisconsin, O'Keeffe resolved to be an artist at just ten years old. A local watercolourist taught her to paint before she went on to study at the Chicago Institute of Art. In 1916, she showed her work in a group `exhibition` at Gallery 291 in New York, whose owner was the avant-garde photographer Alfred Stieglitz. The two became lovers and collaborators. As well as being his muse, O'Keeffe quickly forged her own unique path. This is a wonderful example of one of her early radical paintings. While abstraction had taken hold in Europe a decade or two earlier, this was something really fresh for New York. It's called Blue and Green Music, and you can feel in it O'Keeffe `paring` back, as if to get to the essence of something, the essence of a feeling. As she said, "It's only by `elimination` and by emphasis "that we get at the real meaning of things." Although famous for her flower paintings, this exhibition shows that they were only a small `fraction` of O'Keeffe's work. She experimented with a huge range of subject matter and was always inspired by the landscapes and nature around her. The American southwest would have a huge impact on O'Keeffe's work. Its `rugged` landscapes, vivid orange earth and bleak desert terrain were the perfect escape for her as she sought physical and psychological freedom. When you look at the rich colours in a picture like this, you start to see why, despite the incredibly hard conditions, the ceaseless wind and sun, New Mexico had such a powerful draw for O'Keeffe. One unexpected and really exciting aspect of this show, for me, is O'Keeffe's late, strange, almost `ethereal` abstracts. This one seems to show a sea of clouds, as if seen, perhaps, from an aeroplane, from above, and transforms them into a fantastical landscape of the imagination. For nearly 70 years, Georgia O'Keeffe made profound, surprising and `innovative` artworks that pushed the boundaries of looking and painting. Many of her most celebrated works, from `swirling` flowers to beautiful abstractions, are on show. This exhibition shows us so much more than the myths about Georgia O'Keeffe. It argues convincingly for her place in the `canon` of 20th-century art. Do come and see it for yourself. 