https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7dGy9d_Q2q0
46:10 
```
filth               n. 污秽；肮脏；猥亵；不洁
facilitate          v. 使更容易，使便利；促进，推动
overwhelming        adj. 难以抗拒的，令人不知所措的；巨大的，压倒性的
transition          n. 过渡，转变；（分子生物）转换；（乐）临时转调；（物理）跃迁，转变
devastate           v. 毁坏，破坏；使极度震惊，使伤心欲绝
sane                adj. 心智健全的，头脑清醒的；明智的
outrage             n. 愤慨，愤怒；骇人听闻的事，暴行
denial              n. 否认；拒绝接受，拒不承认；剥夺，拒绝给予
anthropology        n. 人类学
hedge               n. 树篱；防范措施，防备手段 v. 拐弯抹角，避免正面回答；用树篱围住；包围，限制；采取保值措施以规避风险  
archaeology         n. 考古学
epidemic            n. 流行病，传染病；（迅速的）盛行，蔓延
bawl                vi. 大叫；放声痛哭
influx              n. 流入；汇集；河流的汇集处        
integrate           v. （使）合并，成为一体；（使）加入，融入群体；（使）取消种族隔离；求……的积分；表示（面积、温度等）的总和，表示……的平均值
pesticide           n. 杀虫剂，农药
interdisciplinary   adj. 跨学科的
procrastination     n. 耽搁，拖延；拖延症
inexcusable         adj. 不可原谅的；没法辩解的；不可宽恕的
humdrum             adj. 单调的；无聊的
elude               vt. （尤指机智地，巧妙地）避开，逃避，躲避
rigor               n. （尤指发热之初或高潮时的）寒战；严密，严格（rigour 的美式拼法）
segregate           v. （尤指因种族、性别、宗教不同而）使隔离，使分开；实行种族隔离；（使）分开，分离；（成对的等位基因）分离
impetus             n. 动力；促进；冲力；动量
intervene           v. 干预，干涉；插话，打岔；干扰，阻挠；发生于其间，介于中间；调停，斡旋
contradict          v. 反驳，否认；相抵触，相矛盾；发生矛盾
span                n. 时间跨度，一段时间；（桥或拱的）墩距，跨距；宽度，翼展；范围，包括的种类；（航海）跨绳；一队人（或动物）；数值范围；一掌的长度
adroit              adj. 敏捷的，灵巧的；熟练的  
oblige              vt. 迫使；强制；赐，施恩惠；责成；义务
counsel             n. 忠告，建议；辩护律师；<古>咨询，磋商
epic                n. （讲述英雄冒险经历的）叙事诗，史诗；史诗般的书籍（或电影等）；壮举，惊人之举；<非正式>特别耗时费力的事（或活动）
obsess              v. 使着迷；使心神不宁；挂牵，念念不忘
indigenous          adj. 本土的，固有的
```

World101x: Full interview with Philippe Bourgois

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Gerhard: We're here with Philippe Bourgois, who's the Richard Perry Professor of Anthropology and Family and Community Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Long title. 

Philippe: Yes. Embarrassing, isn't it? 

Gerhard: Very impressive. 

Philippe: Actually, it's embarrassing because—I mean, he's a great guy and everything, but it's all about the whole privatization of knowledge in the United States. We get funded by individuals and so forth. He's a wonderful guy. He's a cool guy, super progressive, nice person, but it is an ironic thing for someone who does critical anthropology to be sponsored. 

Gerhard: I guess we can talk about more of that later. Maybe to start off, one question I've asked everyone in this series is: how did you come into anthropology? What drove you into the field or what circumstance? Often it's a particular luck or circumstance that brings people to anthropology? What was it for you? 

Philippe: For me, `anthropology` was one of the few totally effortless things to `stumble` into. I didn't know what anthropology was. I was a freshman in college. I sort of semi-random said, "Well, I better sort of—I have to decide what my major is. I better take a philosophy class or this. I don't know what this anthropology is. I'll try that." I wasn't—I didn't dislike my other classes, but then none of them excited me. With anthropology, the first book that they assigned, I just—wow, it was literally like falling in love. I remember specifically the—I was on the ski team, and we were at some whatever—we were in some gym sleeping on cots, and I couldn't stop myself from reading the textbooks that they had assigned. 

Gerhard: What was the book? 

Philippe: It's an embarrassing book to talk about now because—especially with the work that I do on violence because it was a book that's now completely sort of critiqued in anthropology for very good reason by Napoleon Chagnon, "The Fierce People." It was the very first edition that's even worse than all the other editions. Some people argue that it's his rape fantasy—his masculinist rape fantasies. Basically it's about the Yanomamö Amazonian native peoples. They're an extraordinary set of people. He specifically focused on basically male violence. 

Gerhard: From those beginnings, you took it as a major. What about your graduate work? 

Philippe: I didn't take it as a major actually because in the United States we have this four-field thing, where we have archaeology—I don't know if you have that in Australia. 

Gerhard: We don't. 

Philippe: Thank god. We have `archaeology`, biology, linguistics, and cultural. It has to do, of course, with the origins of anthropology—get it, understanding humans by any means necessary. It's a nice romantic idea of being completely multidisciplinary, multi-method and so forth. Unfortunately, many of us who were interested in cultural anthropology just aren't interested in analyzing bones or analyzing dinosaurs or analyzing rocks and so forth. Because it was a US Department, in those days you were obliged to take one class in each field. I just didn't want to do that. I only wanted to do cultural anthropology. I mean, some of my best friends are archaeologists and linguists and physical anthropologists… 

Fern: Nothing against them. 

Philippe: …but I just wasn't interested in reading that. I majored in social studies instead and interdisciplinary basically social theory, which was great because then you just read the classics: Marx, Freud, Weber, Durkheim and so forth. It gave you a good background for then getting into the nitty-gritty of ethnography and anthropology. 

Fern: I was actually wondering if I could ask about your graduate study fieldwork, and whether when you entered into that field you already had the idea. I mean, already you reference to Napoleon Chagnon in some ways is it a bit of prelude to your focus on violence Although I know that it's a bit of a 180-degree flip, but I'm wondering if you had the idea to take a particular focus on the phenomenon of violence as you entered into grad studies, or if that was something that was more circumstantial once you got there? 

Philippe: Actually, the very—my actual PhD was in Central America. It wasn't the work in the US inner city on drugs and violence. By then, I had read—the critiques were already coming out of Chagnon and traditional anthropology and so forth. I was already very—I was already trying to buck that trend. What I wanted to do was study the "boring people" that—not the exotic other but just the masses of people that are starving, dying, and suffering. I studied banana workers on a United Fruit Company plantation. I also wanted to study the effects of my own country on these exotic parts of the world, which was another thing that—is another one of the original sins of anthropology in a sense, where it had been part of a colonial project often unconsciously, and usually as a progressive force, usually as people critiquing racism, as a matter of fact critiquing—yes, basically wanting—you know, with cultural relativism, wanting to come in and learn about people and so forth. What I wanted to do was take head-on the effects of US multinational corporations on traditional people. That book ended up being—gosh, what was it called? It was called "Ethnicity at Work: Divided Labor on a Central American Banana Plantation." At that point, I wasn't thinking of myself whatsoever as studying violence. I don't know if I had the concept yet of structural violence, but that's what the book ended up being a study in some sense, of structural violence, of the effects of these—`this was a 6,000-hectare plantation that spanned the Panama and Costa Rica border in a beautiful spot right on the Caribbean of Central America, spectacular place.` It's just turned it into a pesticide nightmare, destroyed the reefs. What the company did was import indigenous people and people from all over the world, people from the Caribbean, people from—actually they imported Italians originally, but the Italians all became `anarchist` union organizers, so that was the end of that very rapidly. It was the famous United Fruit Company, the Chiquita Banana and so forth. That was what I looked at—was the divide-and-conquer dynamics that the company used with the amazing ethnic diversity there. There were Kuna Amerindians, the Ngäbe Amerindians, and then about three or four different Latino ethnic groups, and then people of Jamaican descent who had a whole new ethnic identity as creole Costa Ricans. 

Gerhard: Before even that, or was it after you're working in `Nicaragua`? 

Philippe: Yes, actually, that was actually my really my first fieldwork. What I did was I dropped out of graduate—I thought I was dropping out of graduate school in my second year, when the Sandinistas did the revolution in 1979 in Nicaragua. I did hedge my bets. I took a leave of absence, and my University kindly gave me a leave of absence, but I had no intention of going back if the revolution had been the dream that I was hoping it was going to be. I just went down and volunteered to work for the Agrarian Reform Ministry. I was doing fieldwork at the time for my Master's thesis. I was in Belize, which is a tiny country that used to be a British colony on the border with Guatemala and Mexico. I was depressed. I was with the Mopan Maya people actually. I'd chosen the place for very, very practical reasons because I didn't speak Spanish at the time and they were bilingual Mopan and English speakers. I was looking at the construction of a road into this Maya community to see how it was going to affect traditional reciprocal labor exchange arrangements and see if there was going to be cultural destruction basically because of a greater integration into the market economy. I was seeing that it was going to be a disaster, and I was getting really depressed. Listening on my shortwave radio that there is this revolution taking place in Nicaragua, and I said, "Well, that's where I'm going to go, where there's some kind of hope, where indigenous peoples could be—could perhaps benefit from something from the market economy without getting destroyed by it,” which was a `somewhat` naïve thought, but it was a hopeful thought and it seemed possible. I went down, and the agrarian reform folks said, "You're a gringo. You gringos love Indians. We're all a bunch of racists here. We don't like Indians. Go out into the Indian territory that you gringos like to hang out in and tell us what the—figure out what the problems are and find a solution for them." It was an incredibly exciting thing. I took a plane into the Miskitia, which is the territory that's the home territory of the Miskito Amerindians, as well as the—at that time they were called the Sumu. Now they're called Ulwa peoples. They were at the height—so that was it. That was my first fieldwork. We wrote a report. There was a team of us. We wrote a report that was just a little bit too radical for the Sandinista revolution. We called for regional autonomy for the indigenous people, which in retrospect they actually accepted that, but their first reaction was to throw us out. And so they threw me out of the country, and that's why I ended up going back to graduate school, thank god, and continuing anthropology. That's why I continued in the Caribbean region of Central America during that period. I just went one country further south to Costa Rica. By then I spoke fluent Spanish and then ended up on the United Fruit Company plantation, still looking at indigenous peoples but in their active struggles and interface with being suddenly thrust into being basically wage laborers on factories in the field basically, on those huge banana plantations. 

Gerhard: One issue that sort of comes out of all this is: how do you view anthropology as a discipline? What do you think the role of anthropologists is? Is it to affect change with and for the people we work with, or is it rather to document the struggles or whatever their lives are like? 

Philippe: It's all of the above and more. On a very basic level, it's still the original project for me of anthropology, which is to understand humans by any means necessary, in some sense. I think in that sense it's a discipline. I don't want to be overly `hubristic` about our discipline, but I think we have just this extraordinary method that, for some reason, other disciplines for the most part distrust, which is our participant observation `ethnographic` methods. It becomes our common sense. It becomes our way to know about things, at least in cultural anthropology. On that level, I am working towards that project, that sort of romantic project of figuring out human whatever it is, whether it's—whatever we are. Then at the same time, there's also the particular relationship of anthropology to non-state peoples, to indigenous peoples who, at the time of the origins of anthropology, were basically being colonized, genocided, and conquered. 

One of the impetuses —to put a positive spin on it, the impetus of anthropology was, "Hey, all these people are being destroyed. There's a tremendous amount to learn from them. It's a tragedy. We need to respect them. We need to learn from them." That was the whole brilliant insight of cultural relativism and being suddenly - realizing that we can learn about ourselves from others and also learn about truth from others in some sense. And that whatever we think is right and virtuous is not necessarily what others think. One person's virtue is another's violence in some sense. Especially now when we look at whatever the Middle East and so forth, one person's terror is another's god gift to humanity. In that sense, the traditional people that anthropology had always focused on, indigenous people, peoples on the margin of state economies, are, I would argue, the people that are in the most vulnerable relationship to the contemporary world. They're the people whose territories are being destroyed by mining companies that are—it's where `warlords` take over and so forth. They are being dragged into the 21st century, often from very different modes of production, from very different ways of understanding the world, ways of earning a living, of subsistence farming or hunter-gathering or whatever they're doing to survive in extraordinarily rapidly—and so that creates—that's just a recipe for social suffering in that sense. That was what attracted me to Central America and to working with indigenous people that were in those rapid processes of being incorporated into states and incorporated into multinational corporation labor forces, in that sense. All through that time I really wanted to be somewhere else. But this was a long time ago. This was 1979—was when I started my fieldwork in Nicaragua. It still wasn't quite legitimate, at least in US anthropology, for someone to study their hometown. I really wanted to be studying my hometown in New York City and to be looking at what I saw to be the central contradiction and sort of outrage of my society, which is US inner-city segregation, this phenomenon of the ghetto, is it was called then. And it's still a good term for it. I grew up right on the border between the very wealthy neighborhood and the poorest neighborhood of New York, right on the border of East Harlem on the Upper East Side. I would see it every day in some sense. I would get mugged by the kids, the kids and gangs from the Puerto Rican neighborhood who’d come down to mug the little white boys. I could see that this just wasn't normal. Luckily I had a French—I have a French father. He's still alive, 92. I mean, it sounds horrible in retrospect, but basically the rich whites of the city drive through the poor part of town to avoid traffic to get to the highways and that's their contact with segregation. That's the inter-ethnic contact. That's the tragedy of the United States in the whole suburban structure of our cities. My father, being French, would just start ranting and raving about how horrible and inexcusable this racism and `segregation` was. We'd be driving out to a countryside to the beaches and he'd say, "What a shame this wealthy country with this extraordinary poverty, with this bizarre structured racism that's just literally from one block to the next in the United States." I kept hearing that, and I took it seriously in some sense. When I came back to write my dissertation from the banana plantation—I stayed there two-and-half years. It was right in the beginning of the Reagan administration. The first thing that happened was my federal funding was cut. Everyone was getting cut back then. It still hasn't recovered, right? I ran out of money and ended up saying—use that as an excuse to move into the inner city, get a cheap apartment, and write my dissertation there. I wrote my dissertation while living in East Harlem. When you're writing a dissertation, you become a great at procrastinating. Anyone that writes a term paper becomes great at procrastinating. It's a horrible thing because you're really suffering if you just sit down and do it. What happens is everything anyone says to you becomes incredibly interesting. You become so adroit at your socialization, you just become a great chit-chatter, smooth schmoozer and so forth. I started hanging out on the stoop of my house, the stairs in front of my tenement, and making friends with everyone. It became a phenomenal fieldwork site. That led to my second book, which was the one that's better known, which is "In Search of Respect: Selling Crack in El Barrio." The first book that I wrote, "Ethnicity at Work," it only sold 800 copies. I love the book, but no one reads it. This next book, "In Search of Respect," I ended up spending five-and-half years. In that whole process, I was a young man then, so I went through the normal—whatever the things that one does, which is get married, break up, and then have a baby, and get a job and so forth. I ended up being five-and-a-half years there. While I was there, the crack epidemic hit the United States. It was the moment of transition between heroin and cocaine. The Colombian cartels were just getting into `smuggling` cocaine. Then someone figured out how to make crack, which is just cocaine with baking soda that makes it easier to smoke and has a stronger, more immediate effect. That was the moment when the levels of violence went shooting up in the United States. This form of mass incarceration, hyper-incarceration of poor African-American and Latino young men mostly began to—started. That was 1985—was when I started that fieldwork. I stayed there through 1991—was when I left. I watched my neighbors and friends get sucked into that crack economy and become sellers and users for the most part. I spent most of my time with one particular network of sellers who operated—they operated in a video arcade. Back then it was Pac-Man. I don't know—people today probably don't even remember. It was a great game like they just don't have anymore. It was a Pac-Man arcade, but it sold crack. 

Fern: Crack-Man. 

Philippe: Yes, Crack-Man, exactly. It was called—oops. It was called the Game Room actually. I think it's a barbershop now. I didn't really know what I was doing in the sense. I didn't know that drugs was the—that the whole relationship with drug selling and drug using was going to be the focus of my work at that point, but I had really no other option in a sense. That's what happened to the neighborhood. That's where I've been more or less ever since about—what is that?—20 years later, 30 years later? 30 years later. Since we do qualitative research, I'm terrible at counting the years. I think on some level, the management—not so much, well, the management, but also the expression urban poverty often express itself or centrally expresses itself through substance abuse, through—partially because it's an economic resource in the sense that when people don't have access to legal employment, the underground economy which—and the biggest the part of the underground economy is the global narcotics economy, takes over, and it becomes the common sense of ambitious people growing up in neighborhoods, where there is absolutely no jobs. That's what I was watching. I was looking at that moment of deindustrialization of New York City and then the influx of a new set of jobs that were tragically these jobs selling crack. That was that project. The next project I did was I got a job in San Francisco at the end, I guess, I basically have to study wherever I am. I mean, I have to do ethnography wherever I am. I call it my therapy in some sense. On some level, it's the only way I know how to deal with the world. It's also a great way of dealing with upsetting problems in some sense because you can document them, analyze them, and hope that you can represent them in a way that that tremendous amount of suffering that you're documenting isn't for nothing in some sense, that the stories of people that are being crushed by their circumstances or that are fighting against difficult circumstances won't just be forgotten, won't just be swept under the rug, but can be brought to a larger audience. What I did then, upon moving into San Francisco, which is sort of the city of gentrification—it's the city with the highest income concentrated in the United States and so forth was—the phenomenon of homelessness was just completely in your face. You couldn't walk anywhere without someone `panhandling`. The people from the suburbs couldn't even drive their cars in without being panhandled because the homeless would fly signs, as they say, begging for money at the highway interpasses and interchanges. 

I said that's what I have to study. Every time I went anywhere out of my neighborhood, I would have to drive back by one particular corner where there were guys flying signs. I said, "That's where I'll be." It was about six blocks from my house. I made friends with a network of homeless heroin injectors. I didn't quite know they were heroin injectors at the time, but I could sort of tell. They were nodding out with that telltale heroin nod. `They smoked crack, drank alcohol, and injected heroin`. They were actually my age at that time. They were in their 30s, late 30s, I guess. That project took much too long. I had, I guess, I don't know if you can call it fun, but I had too much fun. I mean, it's a lot more fun to do `ethnography` than to write it up. I just kept getting—I just kept extending it saying I don't have enough information. Then all of a sudden, 10 years had passed. I said, "Well, now, I have to study the aging process." That ended up taking 12 years. That came out as "Righteous Dopefiend." On some level, it takes off where "In Search of Respect" ended. "In Search of Respect," I talk about the dealers, and I talk about the dream of making it in the narcotics economy and the impossibility of it and the violence that's associated with all of that, and also specifically about the colonial US-Puerto Rican relationship that sets Puerto Ricans up to be in this most vulnerable position within the global narcotics economy. I didn't deal with addiction per se. I had, whatever, a few hundred field notes on addiction. It was just one of the chapters that I cut out because I had to cut the book into whatever it was, 250 pages. It was a complicated subject that I couldn't really understand either because the guys that I was with were selling, so they always had enough money. They had gotten addicted, both to smoking crack, and there was just a psychological addiction, but there were also getting physically addicted to `sniffing` heroin. I was watching it, but they were so triumphant about it and they had so much money about it that they were able to maintain a denial about it. I was able to sort of—not be able to understand it, not be able to understand its importance in some sense. Also, I wanted to stay in denial. These were my friends. I still had—I still shared some of their hope even though I saw that objectively they were going to be spending the rest of their life cycling chronically through prison and in and out of treatment and addiction. They were engaging in tremendous violence against their loved one and against themselves and each other as well. 

Going to San Francisco gave me the space perhaps to confront addiction head on. That's what this second book is about. It's about the experience of homeless addiction. I followed them then through their income-generating strategies, their survival strategies. I did that as a `collaboration` with a graduate student. He was getting a Masters, Jeff Schonberg, and he happened to be a great photographer. He didn't quite know it at the time. He admits to me now that he was just pretending. He came into my office hours and said—well, I was in the middle of—I had just begun the fieldwork, and I realized that this was just unbelievable. You couldn't write about this and make it as real as it really is. People just wouldn't be able to believe the kinds of things I was seeing, specifically just the living conditions of the homeless: how `filthy` it was, how bloody the injection process was, how desperate they were, and also how full of life they were, how they tried to—how they created a whole community and decorated their camps and had all kinds of dreams in terms of their own lives that they were trying to—that they were searching for. I had been taking little snapshots and realizing that I just—I couldn't tape-record and observe and talk and take pictures at the same time. I just don't have that ability in my head. I started looking for a photographer. I'd started about maybe a week before Jeff happened to walk into my office hours. He came in with his camera. He was going to do a Masters in photo documentary. He wanted to merge anthropology and documentary journalism and education. He'd get at doing something for the people you're studying in terms of education, and then journalism in terms of reaching a wider public, and then anthropology in terms of having that cultural relativism and theoretical sophistication to understand that you're studying a cultural form and to have a critical perspective that goes beyond the everyday emergency or the voyeurism that journalism analyzes or just the service providing that education does. 

Gerhard: Do you think that's the future of anthropology: to have a broader public—to have that journalistic aspect, to have the depth of anthropology through an anthropology degree? 

Philippe: I wish so. I mean, I could be dishonest and say, "Absolutely," but I’m, in some sense, not fighting for that, but working towards that within anthropology, trying to make whatever effect that I might have on the field or might momentarily have on the field until I disappear like everyone else to promote that kind of a project, to reach wider audiences. The frustration that I had—I mean, I tried just doing that a few times, just doing journalism, just reaching out, and realized that I was just becoming confused. I was in an everyday emergency of addressing sort of political conjunctural crises. I wasn't understanding anything. I was not seeing the big picture. I wasn't able to put—I was unable to even sort of figure out what I should do next in some sense. I was just lurching from whatever crisis was going on at the moment. This was during the revolutions in Central America. That's why I think anthropology has so much potential in doing just what you are saying in bringing sort of the rigor of social science theory. The great thing about anthropology is it also has humanities theory. We're both artists and literary critics and philosophers, as well as social scientists. It's the only field that really—or one of the only fields that really straddles two completely different and often contradictory ways of understanding and approaching the world: the humanities and the social sciences. By bringing that set of theory that we build and that sensibility that we have to address the urgent crises that are all around us, we really can do a lot, I think. 

Gerhard: How important do you think—I mean, in your work, what really comes through is the fact that you've been with these people for 5, 10 years, which is, even for anthropology, extraordinary in terms of the this long-term… 

Philippe: Obsessive-compulsive behavior. 

Gerhard: …obsessive-compulsive attachment to the people you work with, facilitated by the vicinity. I mean, six blocks. I mean, my fieldwork is thousands of kilometers away, which is more the norm in anthropology. What role do you think that has played in how you've then theorized or written about the people that are really part of your community in an everyday context, rather than a more—not exoticized, but a more out there, other context that most anthropologists work in? 

Philippe: Yes, just logistically, of course, is what's made it possible. On a very personal level, it's also what keeps me sane. When you're at your university, you're teaching all your students and so forth, you get caught up in the `humdrum` of things, and there's all kinds of squabbles between the professors and you're writing grants and stuff like that. Then the great thing about doing fieldwork on your block, in your hometown, right where you live is all of a sudden you can step out of that world that you're in that seems like your whole universe and be somewhere completely different. In that sense, it was always refreshing. I would come from a set of academic squabbles in the faculty meeting, and then stop off at the homeless encampment on the way home and all of a sudden be in their world and learning about their logics and how they saw their hopes and how they were dealing with the police, specifically. In their case, that became a big focus of the book—was the carceral sort of abusive management of poverty and addiction by criminalizing it. Yes, that made it possible to do the fieldwork. On another level, of course, it creates a different kind of friendship. It's interesting because I do have the kind of ethnographic friendships that I'm sure you have that are a thousand miles away. I have that with the people I originally worked with in Central America. You can maintain those friendships. It's hard on some level just because it's far and so forth, but it's also, on another level, quite easy because when you return, you just hug the person and you haven't seen each other and you're sort of also in a strange way safely distant on another level. With the homeless, I was really in reality. They knew where I was living. They could come and break into my windows and steal my television set, right, which is what they specialized in doing, or one of the things they specialized in doing. They could also come and ask me for money when they were in a bind—and they did. They didn't steal from me. They were actually super nice to me. They never stole anything from me. They only gave me things actually, which is quite extraordinary when you think about it. They had absolutely nothing, and I had so much, and they were generous to me. They did it very rarely and with respect, so it required a whole set of sort of conscious and unconscious negotiations of the friendship to try to figure out how to do it with more structural equality than is built into the relationship when you're separated by multiple borders and thousands of miles. In that sense, the main character "In Search of Respect," who I call Primo, is still one of my best friends. Whenever I go to New York, I try to visit him or I call him up. Often his phone is disconnected. It's tragic. Actually, he's better now because he has a great girlfriend, who has taken him into her apartment, but for about three, four years, he was living in a homeless shelter with his kids. His phone kept getting—he didn't have enough money to pay for his phone and so forth, so it was hard to maintain contact. That was like being a thousand miles away. All of a sudden, no cell phone—the new technology barriers. In that sense, you develop different types of friendship, not that the friendships that I have been able to maintain in Costa Rica specifically aren't great friendships, but they're almost magical imaginary ones in some sense. Every now and then actually, now with Internet, the children of my main friend in `Costa Rico` will e-mail me when there's an emergency and ask me to send whatever, 100-dollar emergency doctor thing. In that sense, boundaries are reduced in a way that they weren't in the 1980s. 

Fern: I'm wondering, if just on the back of that, I can ask you a quick question because I know that we're getting a little bit short of time. 

Philippe: Yes, yes, yes. You can go into… 

Fern: Something that's been coming up over the course of what you've been saying. You're talking about being depressed when you were in Belize, and then you said you were engaging with people in quite close quarters, so you're very much more embedded in these sorts of community than I think a lot of people are in their fieldwork. These are communities that you identify as high-risk or victims of structural violence of the state. I'm wondering how it is that you deal with the emotion of working within these sorts of groups of people as a fieldwork site. Is that something that you consciously deal with or… 

Philippe: Yes. It's definitely overwhelming. I think in some sense part of the way—I think a large part of how I deal with it is through, in some contradictory way, the shield of ethnography. It allows me to be in the moment and see horrendous things and not completely fall apart upon seeing them, by saying, "Well, I have to also document this." The nice thing with ethnography is that you can engage as a human being and act ethically at the moment. If someone is beating up a little kid or something, you can put yourself in—and stop the person from beating up the little kid. You do do that. You find yourself engaging like that. At the same time, doing ethnography, you're not instantly passing judgment and also sort of getting immediately caught up in that sort of savior-service type of relationship that services have. That's very healthy because a lot of the time—but to answer your question more specifically, I think on some—one level I go into denial because it's all un-dealable with. What do you do when you're hearing a baby shrieking and noises of hitting and so forth? How do you deal with that? Well, you have to figure out whether you should call child protective services program that's even more abusive than a family some sense, and you have to figure out how people deal with it locally in order to find a grandmother or something who can intervene and bawl out the young man who gets drunk and—this is specifically with—one of the things that's hardest to deal with is child abuse. I mean, when I've been away from doing fieldwork and I go back, I start to realize that I can't believe that I lived with so much of that sound of crying babies in some sense. There is something that happens that you somehow `disassociate` in some way just to be able to just keep operating and to understand things. I'd talked about this with my collaborators because I work with collaborators now. I think one of the things I do also work with collaborators because there you can share your concerns with someone. You can ask them for advice: "Well, what should we do about this? Should we call the police? Or run from the police?” We end up having to—we don't—actually, in this project, we couldn't call the police. They were just too violent and brutal in Philadelphia, but in other places, you might find yourself where you can trust the police, calling the police to help protect someone or something. In talking with them, one of the—actually, this was just told to me just recently by George Karandinos, one of my collaborators. He was an undergraduate student when he started working with me. Now he's a graduate student. He said that when he moved out of the neighborhood, for the next six months, he just kept finding himself bursting into tears at random, not even knowing why he was crying. I think in that sense he was doing the fieldwork more intensively than me. He lived for five years. This was my last project here in North Philadelphia on a heroin and cocaine selling block. It's similar to "In Search of Respect" in that it's a Puerto Rican neighborhood that's sort of an epicenter of the distribution networks of the global narcotics economy. It's a different moment from the 1980s. This is the height of the mass incarceration of the United States, and the extraordinary cutback of social services, the complete breakdown, in the case of Philadelphia, of public education. Our schools are just being absolutely devastated. They're closing them. They're firing the counselors and nurses from the schools and raising—all the things you can't possibly do to help people, or that you shouldn't possibly do. He was there for five years and living there in an apartment that I had rented for him. I was going up a few times a week, staying overnight at his place, and we were making friends again, not just with the sellers but we wanted to get at the larger neighborhoods, the larger community—in this case, the block's relationship to the sellers, which meant the mothers, fathers, lovers, grandmothers, grandfathers of the sellers, to see how they were understanding their sons. There were some daughters as well involved in selling, but mostly it's a male-dominated scene. Yes, it is overwhelming on some level. At the same time, people are friendly to you; people are exciting; people are creative and full of great ideas. You actually think of the fieldwork in the moment as great fun. It's like super, super exciting. You sort of can't believe how everyone is being so friendly to you and telling you everything about their way of seeing the world because they get excited about the project. I go in and I show them "In Search of Respect" and say, "Look, I did this book in the 1980s. I now want to do another book to show what street life is like in the 2010s." They go, "Well, you better have at least two or three chapters on me. I've great stories to tell." People like to get engaged with it. They like to be taken seriously, which is just like you and I would love to be—just like this. You come and interview me: “Wow, I'll tell you anything. I'll talk for…” We love to be heard and have a platform for getting what we think is important out. That's how they understand the project as well. In that sense, it feels great to do that. You can talk about their dreams. You can talk about their struggles. You can talk about what's hurting them and what could possibly help them. 

Gerhard: Maybe on that empowering and positive note, we'll finish the official part of the interview. Thank you very much for having us, Philippe. 

Philippe: Yes. Sorry for talking so much. 

Fern: It's perfect. 