https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVTYiD9iCH8
55:05
```
moral               adj. 有关道德的；基于道德的，道义上的；品行端正的，有道德的；伦理的；能辨别是非的
depict              v. 描述，描绘
facilitate          v. 使更容易，使便利；促进，推动
enlist              v. （使）参军，（使）入伍；争取，谋取；赞助，支持
predominant         adj. 显着的，明显的；占主导地位的，占支配地位的
genre               n. 体裁，类型；风俗画
aptitude            n. 天资；自然倾向；适宜
egalitarian         adj. 平等主义的 
conform             v. 遵守，符合；顺从，随潮流；一致，相吻合
anguish             n. 痛苦；苦恼
legible             易读的; 可以辨认的; 清楚的; 清晰的;
compliment          n. 赞扬，称赞；问候，祝贺
discern             vt. 觉察出；识别；了解；隐约看见
deceptive           adj. 欺骗性的，造成假象的
affection           n. 喜爱，关爱；爱恋，爱慕之情；精神状况，感情；疾患，病；影响
motif               n. 主题；主旨；图形；意念；基序，模体 
diverge             vi. 分歧；偏离；分叉；离题
fascinate           v. <旧>（尤指蛇）以眼神震慑（人，动物），使无法动弹；深深吸引，迷住
queer               adj. 奇怪的，异常的；男同性恋的；不舒服的
venture             n. 风险项目，冒险事业；冒险旅行，冒险行动
noted               adj. 著名的，有名的
discourse           n. 演讲，论述；谈话，交流；话语，语篇
vogue               n. 流行，时尚，时髦 
propriety           n. <正式>（行为，道德）正当，得体；<正式>行为规范，礼节（proprieties）
accuse              v. 控告，指控；指责，谴责，归咎于
delicate            adj. 柔和的，清淡的；虚弱的，纤弱的；脆弱的，易碎的；小巧玲珑的，纤细的；微妙的，棘手的；精致的，精巧的；灵巧的，熟练的；（仪器）灵敏的 
ascribe             vt. 归因于；归咎于 
overt               adj. 公开的，不隐瞒的
reiterate           vt. 重申；反复地做
psychiatric         adj. 精神病学的，精神病治疗的；精神疾病的
seduce              v. 诱奸，勾引；引诱，吸引
evasion             n. 逃脱，躲避；逃避手段，逃避方法；遁词，借口
devious             adj. 偏僻的；弯曲的；不光明正大的
constrain           v. 限制，约束；强迫，迫使
articulate          vt. 清晰地发（音）；明确有力地表达；用关节连接；使相互连贯 
confine             v. 限制，局限；防止……扩散；关押，监禁；使离不开（或受困于床、轮椅等）
subliminal          adj. [生理] 阈下的；潜在意识的；微小得难以察觉的
manifest            v. 显示，表明；（鬼魂或神灵）显灵，出现；（病症）显现；把……列入货单
assiduous           adj. 刻苦的，勤勉的 
steadfast           adj. 坚定的；不变的
distortion          n. 歪曲，曲解；变形，失真
immoral             adj. 不道德的，邪恶的；伤风败俗的 ；
prowess             n. 英勇；超凡技术；勇猛
entry 
extravagant         adj. 奢侈的，挥霍的；不切实际的，放肆的；豪华的，精美的
warrant             n. （法院授予警方采取行动的）令状，授权令；（思考、决定或做某事的）正当理由，依据；（接受款项、服务等的）凭单，许可证；（财政）认股权证；准尉委任书
mutiny              n. 兵变；叛乱；暴动
contradict          v. 反驳，否认；相抵触，相矛盾；发生矛盾
weary               adj. 疲劳的，疲倦的；使人疲劳的，令人厌烦的；厌倦的，厌烦的
innate              adj. 先天的；固有的；与生俱来的
subtle              adj. 不易察觉的，微妙的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；灵活的，巧妙的；含蓄的，隐晦的；<古>狡猾的
span                n. 时间跨度，一段时间；（桥或拱的）墩距，跨距；宽度，翼展；范围，包括的种类；（航海）跨绳；一队人（或动物）；数值范围；一掌的长度
v. 持续，贯穿；包括（广大地区），涵盖（多项内容）；横跨，跨越；张开手覆盖（或环绕）；<南非>给（动物）套上轭
clue                n. 线索，提示；理解，想法
aristocrat          n. 贵族 
exacerbate          vt. 使加剧；使恶化；激怒 
dilemma             n. （进退两难的）窘境，困境；二难推理，两刀论法
pervert             v. 使错乱，使反常；歪曲，曲解；误用，滥用；颠倒；腐蚀，侵害；使堕落
courageous          adj. 勇敢的，有胆量的
affiliate           v. 使隶属，使紧密联系；<正式>加入；（组织）接纳……为成员
affirm              v. 断言，证实； 宣称拥护，支持；认可（判决，协议），批准；不宣誓而提供正式证词；给予（某人）情感支持（或鼓励）
naval               adj. 海军的，军舰的
picturesque         adj. （地方）古雅的，风景如画的；（语言）生动的，独特的；（服饰和外貌）引人注意的，奇特的
captive             adj. 被俘虏的，被圈养的；受限制的，受控制的；（设备，服务）受垄断的；被迷住的，被吸引的
sociable            adj. 好交际的，合群的，友善的；（地方，场合，活动）气氛友好的 
permissive          adj. 放任的，纵容的；<法律>允许而非强制的，可选择的；（生）允许的，许可的；（道路）公众获准可使用的
dedicate            v. 致力于，献身于；把（书、戏剧、音乐作品等）献给；为（建筑物或教堂）举行奉献（或落成）典礼；题献词
anthology           n. （诗、文、曲、画等的）选集
fault               n. 错误；责任，过错；缺点，故障；断层；发球失误
assert              v. 坚称，断言；维护，坚持（权利或权威）；坚持自己的主张，表现坚定；生效，起作用
illusion            n. 错觉，幻觉；幻想，错误的观念
outfit              n. （尤指在某一场合穿的）全套服装；全套工具，全套设备；<非正式>（协同工作的）一组人，一队人（尤指乐队、运动队、公司）
```

Helen Langa - Romaine Brooks, 20th-Century Woman - Art Discussion, SAAM

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Well, it really is a very very special pleasure to introduce tonight Helen Langa. She just told me she's about to retire, but I've known her her whole professional career and it seems like it's only about eight or nine years. I'm not quite sure how we have managed to do that. Professor Helen Langa teaches a sequence of courses on American Art from the colonial era to the late 20th century. With an emphasis on issues related to national identity, politics, race, gender, and cultural studies. She was chair of the Art Department which includes Art History, Graphic Design, and Studio Art at the American University from 2008-2010 and Director of the Art History program from 2008 and to the Spring of 2014. She has taught courses, or seminars really, on transnational issues in American Art from 1890-1970. A course that I would dearly love to take called, "Shaking Things Up: The Politics of Identity in American Art from 1960-1998." A course on Post-Modernism since 1980 that deals with controversial art and museum responsibility. In her scholarly research, she emphasizes both the work of American women artists and representations of women during the first half of the 20th century. She works on leftist interests in labor, gender, racial equality, and social change in 1930s Art, and the Pre-Stonewall History of American lesbian, gay, `queer` identity, and visual representation. I highly recommend her book called, "Radical Art: Printmaking and the Left in 1930s New York" that came out in 2004. More recently, she's done a couple of articles. One called, "Seeing Queerly: Lesbian Presence and Absence in American Visual Art, " 1890 to 1950" in the Journal of Lesbian Studies. Another wonderful title, "At Least Half the Pages will Consist of Pictures’: New Masses and Politicized Visual Art” in American Periodicals. That came out in 2011. Her `anthology` which was co-edited with Paula Wisotzki is titled, "American Women Artists, 1935 to 1970: Gender, Culture, Politics". It will be coming out this year from Ashgate Press. Or has just come out? It out came out in January. We can all rush to the bookstores. It is a very special pleasure to bring Helen Langa up to the podium. Helen has been sharing her insights and wisdom with us, and especially her wonderful sense of humor, for many years now. Helen. 

Virginia, thank you for that really wonderful introduction. I felt as if my life was flashing before my eyes. I'd like to thank Virginia Mecklenburg especially for inviting me to participate in this symposium, and other curators and staff. Especially Joann Moser for the beautiful show. If you haven't had a chance to see the exhibition of Romaine Brooks Paintings it's just wonderful experience, upstairs. I would also like to acknowledge a few `forbearers` for me as a scholar of Lesbian Art. T Coren's pioneering research on lesbian artist, Joan Byron's early slide shows on lesbian artist that inspired me to, kind of, copy what she was doing, and the many feminist and `queer` studies scholars whose work has influenced my own. While I will not cite those works extensively today they have been essential in my research and thinking about these issues. I would also like, as sandy did, I would like to dedicate this talk to the victims and survivors of the Orlando gay nightclub attack. While Romaine Brooks, Natalie Barney, and other women in their friendship circles were celebrating `sapphic` love in Paris, there were a number of artists whom today - we might call lesbians - working on this side of the ocean in the late nineteenth and early to mid twentieth centuries. However the cultural context in which they framed their careers were shaped much more negatively by the complex social imagination that defined gay and lesbian identity in America as predominantly deviant and dangerous. What was possible in Paris in the more bohemian and permissive atmosphere that characterize that particular cultural moment for lesbian expatriates is suggested by Romaine Brooks' now well-known 1923 self portrait and also by photographer Berenice Abbott's 1927 images of lesbian members of modernist Parisian literary and artistic circles, such as writers Janet Flanner and Jane Heap. You've seen the Flanner portrait before. This freedom of self-expression was not generally available to artist in America who typically did not create works with any `overtly` recognizable form of lesbian iconography. This is unfortunately led Art Historians all too often, until very recently, to lead the full significance of their personal relationship choices in discussions of their artistic works and career decisions. I think most of us would agree the deep information about artist's lives and careers should be part of the larger American Art historical record. Of course the Smithsonian and the archives of American Art has certainly done a great deal to forward that. Since every artist's life story has some bearing on what she or he produces. 

For women artists, lesbian relationships `facilitated` a number of valuable possibilities. The empathetic emotional support of a female partner, the experience of shared resistance to `patriarchal` expectations of women's domestic roles, as well as cultural `homophobia`, and the sharing of daily and long term life responsibilities versus the economics and stress of going it alone. At the same time, most American lesbian artists had to deal with cautiously shaping their professional careers through some form of self silencing. These decisions continue to be significant issues for art historical investigation. Naming historical women artists, I keep checking to make sure i'm really getting the right image, naming historical women artists as lesbians or as having had significant lesbian like experiences continues to be viewed as somewhat problematic even today. Some feminist and queer studies scholars have objected to the term lesbian itself. They argue that this word and it's conceptions are essentialist and both too broad and too limiting. The diverse ways in which women perform their gender relationship identities, these scholars argue, cannot be `subsumed` in a term as generic and essentializing as lesbian. My own perspective, however, follows an argument made by Jill Fields in a 2012 article in Frontiers Women's Studies Journal. She wrote "the strategic deployment of `essentialism`, a concept suggested by Gayatri Spivak and understood not as an `adherent` and fixed biological quality, but in relation to women's experiences, habits, practices, and positionality remains a necessary risk to challenging the status quo." I agree that without some unifying terminology we are left with no way to articulate the histories of women who explored lesbian like relationships within the confining social constraints imposed by the homophobic cultures of their times. Yet many late nineteenth and early twentieth century women who were social activists, teachers, intellectuals, and artists whose lives were shared with long-term female partners, or whose `biographies` reveal other relationships that might signify, what today we would call lesbian like identity, would most likely not have used the term lesbian for themselves, either. This was true for Molly Dewson and Polly Porter, a lesbian couple shown here with their friend Grace Hutchens in a picture possibly taken by Hutchen's partner, Anna Rochester. All four women were political activists in varied organizations during the first half of the 20th century. If these were decades in which medicalized discourses deemed people who express same-sex desires to be `inverts` or `deviants` - labels that, as historian William Federman has argued, white professional class women, who loved other women generally resisted, is not referring to their lifestyles. I'm sure to a certain extent, that would have been true for the women in `aristocratic circles` that Sandy Langer and Sylvia Kahn on are talking about, also. This was also true for women with lesbian `inclinations` who gained access to the education required for a professional career in the visual arts. These women were predominantly white and sought to achieve middle class or higher social status through professional success. Some of those who embrace visual signifiers of identity that were seen in their own time as coding lesbian interests - such as `masculine` tweed jackets, seriously close-cropped hair, or obvious cross-dressing - frequently left the US for Europe where, as we have already heard, the more diverse artistic communities constructed spaces for diverging forms of gendered self-expression.

The freedom of those European spaces is suggested here in photographs of a rather butch appearing Gertrude Stein, at least in her upper torso and hair, and her fem life partner Alice B Toklas. Another image of Stein with the American art critic Elizabeth McCausland taken when Stein arrived in America in 1934 for the opening of her opera, "Four Saints in Three Acts." That's, obviously, the image on the right. That photograph seems to foreground Stein's role as lesbian model as well as admired writer. McCausland's unusually short haircut mimicking Stein's and her admiring gays suggested significance that Stein's masculinized appearance could represent on this side of the ocean. Some young artists exemplified by Alice Austen and Frida Kahlo in these images, also staged photographs in which they dressed up in men's clothing to record themselves `in drag`. Yet recent scholarship has asserted that such images cannot only be understood as signaling lesbian `aptitude`. Although Austen did later maintain a long relationship with her partner Gertrude Tate, and Kahlo reportedly had several affairs with women friends, but rather symbolizing teenage rebellion against the larger cultural demands of female propriety. Both in this context and in the development of popular cross dressed styles in women's fashions in the nine-teen teens and twenties. Scholars `reiterate` that claiming the right to wear male associated types of clothing could reference varied cultural meanings. While full or partial cross dressing certainly seems culturally `resonant` as a lesbian signifier in Romaine Brooks's works, and those two photographs of Stein, before the nineteen forties that meaning did not always translate directly into widespread recognition as a signifier of lesbian desire. 

My own research suggests that American visual artists, who we might identify today as lesbians, frequently sought to `mute` such visible coatings of personal style at least in relation to lesbian identity, in order to pursue their desired careers. Especially during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as Kirsten Swift is shown in painting professionals, women artists, and the development of modern American Art. Women artists were first challenge by male peers to assert professionalism through academic training and the deployment of conventional skills. But then those abilities were undercut by `masculinized` codes of modernist artistic experimentation and self-expression. For women who wished to compete in the shifting terrain of artistic modernity the game had to be played through visual strategies that asserted both feminine propriety and respectability, or exploited modes of bohemian innovation through visibly alternative costume and hair style choices. In Boston in 1898 Ethel Mars and Maud Hunt Squire first presented themselves as polite young women, as you can see on the left. But after studying in Europe, they returned during World War I to live in the artist community of Provincetown, Massachusetts where they wore more of avant garde clothing, as seen here. After returning to France in 1921 friends noted that they dyed their hair unusual colors and adopted extreme modernist outfits, for which sadly I have no images. 

Women artists who were involved in various types of lesbian relationships typically resolve the cultural challenges presented by that identity by doing work that could be seen as equal to that of their male and female peers. While keeping public understanding of their personal identities contained within sympathetic social circles, or later in the 1950s, those in which homosexual difference was an allowable bohemian form of self-expression. In this context, while any artist can choose to portray any subject or any form of abstract imagery, the desire to avoid self-revelation may have acted as a limiting constraint on some lesbian artists works. This was particularly the case I suspect in relation to the representation of `nude` female bodies. Romaine obviously is a case under herself. A subject that early 20th century heterosexual women artists, such as Marguerite Zorach, found useful in signaling their new sexual and sensual freedom as avant-garde modernist new women. Yet such imagery is almost completely absent in the work of lesbian artists working in the U.S., that I have studied, with the exception of Ruth Bernhard's later formerly abstracted photographs. I'll talk more about that a little bit later. Perhaps `innate` resistance to the objectification of the female body under the male gaze in Western art traditions, even if no one at the time would have defined it that clearly, along with hesitation about any suggestion of unwanted personal self `revelation` combined to make nude female figures unacceptable for public display by artist with lesbian interests. However, these strategies of self `mutiny` and a suppression of signifiers of supposed deviant identity had an unfortunate corollary. Over the decades, from the late 19th to the mid twentieth centuries, many American women who had female life partners or who explored other forms of same-sex affiliation or desire typically destroyed or edited out most evidence of such infections in their letters and memoirs. Searching papers in archival collections is often, but happily not always, a challenging experience for scholars looking to affirm the importance of their relationships to their personal and professional histories. We end up, too often, commenting on what is missing rather than what might, more positively, inform our research. The lack of affirmative historical documentation has also influenced recent publications focused on gay, lesbian, or queer artists in America. Lesbian artists are poorly represented in the sections of these texts on art created before nineteen seventy. In the case of Richard Meier's' "Outlaw Representation" published in 2002, or Gavin Butt's "Between You and Me: Queer Disclosures in the New York Art World, 1948–1963" which appeared in 2005, both authors acknowledge that their overall focus on gay male artist was the result of a lack of published information on lesbian women. Unfortunately I think that's partly my fault. 

In the catalog for the ambitious and innovative "Hide Seek" exhibition organized at the National Portrait Gallery in 2010 authors and creators Jonathan Katz and David Ward cited only two women typically identified as lesbian for the period before nineteen seventy - Romaine Brooks and Berenice Abbott. The much more expansive 2013 "Text, Art, and Queer Culture", edited by Catherine Lord and Richard Meier, which addresses European as well as American artists, included eight American lesbian artists working before nineteen seventy. But since the author's focus was on art that foregrounded queer imagery, the numerous women who assiduously avoided such material remain invisible. I would therefore like to do three things in the rest of my talk today. I will present a rather brief historized overview of a few of the women who can be positively identified as artists with lesbian interest before 1970. Second, I will consider the impact of homophobic and derogatory values evident in the larger American social imagination which typically led such artists to protect their professional careers by keeping their lesbian interest muted in public. Third I will consider how alternative forms of scholarly investigation might allow us to `discern` potentially hidden meanings in some lesbian artists works and I will illustrate a few examples of reading suggestive details of image to discover their lesbian content. 

Despite its challenges archival research can reveal important clues leading to acknowledgement of lesbian status for some American women artists even when there is no hint of those interests in their visual work. Frances Benjamin Johnston, for example, began her career as a professional photographer in the late 19th century. She created numerous highly respected images for varied commissions including the scene on the right of sailors tattooing each other on an American naval vessel. Which happened to be in the harbor of a city in Italy where the American Ambassador asked her if she would take these photographs. It's very interesting. Her well-known self-portrait photograph on the left, in which her self presentation certainly floated conventional feminine manners makes no reference to any romantic interests, but it certainly suggests her humorous defiance of heteronormative propriety. Her reluctance to marry was also not typical of women of her class in the late 19th century but neither does it offer conclusive evidence of lesbian inclinations. However, Johnston's biographer Bettina Berch discovered information in the artist's papers that does support an assertion of lesbian affections. Drawing on letters that document Johnson's multi-year relationship with a woman named Maddie Hewitt, also a photographer, who became for five years her live-in assistant and partner. Their relationship was somewhat `tumultuous` after they separated in 1917, Johnston vowed never to form another romantic connection. She continued to build her very successful professional reputation by working for the national government, various organizations, colleges and businesses, and soliciting portrait architectural garden commissions. It breaks my heart not to show you lots of photographs or works of art by all these people, but we just don't have time. It is somewhat easier to assert the lesbian like identities of two turn of the century artists whose lives are shaped by a long-term affectionate and professional relationship, Ellen Day Hale and Gabrielle DeVoe Clemens. Both were painters and printmakers who developed professional careers. Their relationship began in Boston in the late 1890s, but they found it difficult to work out a fully share domestic partnership. Instead as dutiful daughters they lived for many years with one or both of their parents. Eventually they were able to enjoy a joint summer home and studio on the Massachusetts coast. They also traveled together in Europe in the winters to gain material for their prints and paintings. These works emphasize romantic and `picturesque` European and American landscape subjects, as you can see in the two prints on the screen and were exhibited professionally in numerous venues. Clemens also painted `murals` for several churches and Hale taught art to young women. Building on the popularity of the etching revival movement from the 1890s into the 20th century, these images according to Kirsten Swift, reveal their adoption of newer printmaking techniques as seen in Clemens color etching and allow them to support themselves for nearly 50 years. Hale and Clemens biographies revealed that they maintained a deeply affectionate and support of partnership, which lasted until Hale's death at age 85 in 1940. Clemens died in 1948. 

Sorry, did I do that? 

Another artist who benefited from a long relationship with one romantic partner was photographer Alice Austen. A pioneer of street photography in New York City in the 1890s. Austen, who began photographing at age 18 was described as stereotypically athletic and resistant to typical feminine pursuits and according to historian Ann Novotny, "never seems to have considered marriage". Again traits that suggests, at the least, resistance to normative feminine life patterns. Unlike Johnston, Austen worked as an amateur, and her independent income allowed her to focus on photographing her friends, working class people in the city, and the changing appearance of Staten Island around her home. She rejected new pictorialist ideas and instead emphasize the energy and vitality of the people and scenes that she represented. In 1899, Austen began a close relationship with Gertrude Tate, a teacher who lived in Brooklyn. This partnership lasted for 53 years. Tate lived at home to care for her mother and siblings after her father's death, but she and Austen went to Europe together every summer between nineteen 1900-1917. Only after her mother moved to an apartment could Tate move in with Austen, when she was in her mid-forties Austuen was 51. Once they began living together, Novotny notes, Tate was in charge of the kitchen. But Austen made her breakfast `tray` and brought it to her bedroom every morning. They were described by friends as, "naturally `complimentary`." I would argue that the breakfast tray in addition to other biographic details suggest quite clearly at least to me that their relationship was one of lesbian romantic affection, as well as friendship. To other women artists whose careers and enduring relationship span the turn of the century where, Ethel Mars and Maud Hunt Squire. They met in Cincinnati in the 1890s and remained together for the next 50 years. After studying painting and printmaking techniques in France from 1902 to 1914 they escaped World War I by moving to Provincetown, Massachusetts where they joined other artists/printmakers who were doing experimental work in this avant-garde art community. After the war they returned to live in France in an artists colony near Vence. Mars and Squire break the mold of modestly minimizing their unconventional identities. Friends claimed that after they returned to Europe, Mars dyed her hair purple and wore orange `lipstick`, while Squire sometimes had half her hair dyed red and the other side black, predating the current vogue for exaggerated hairstyles that do no resistance to social heteronormativity. Gertrude Stein's poem, "Miss Skeene and Miss Furr" published in 1922 supposedly depict these two artists and Stein repeatedly use the word gay to describe them. While, this did not have the conventionalized meaning `ascribed` to it today, it was already a code word used by some homosexuals. Although most likely not yet understood by general readers of Stein's work. From the 1920s -1940s and later, my list of lesbian artists include several more professional photographers who benefited from long-term relationships with women. In these partnerships they typically shared, not only affection and living arrangements, but also intellectual and social concerns that enlarge the possibilities of their art making. Clarence Abbott stands as a particularly interesting figure in this context, because her early portrait photographs made in Paris depicted members of the gay and lesbian literary world, such as Sylvia Beach, who with her partner Adrienne Monnier, ran the Shakespeare and Company bookstore and published James Joyce's startlingly avant-garde novel, "Ulysses." Abbott learned photography in a short stint as Man Ray's assistant in Paris before she opened her own portrait studio. However when she returned to America in 1929, and sought to reestablish a portrait practice, she found it hard to gain clients. Certainly not the kinds of extravagantly queer sitters that she had had in Paris. At the same time, she was fascinated by the dynamic transformation of the city, as older, picturesque, and functional buildings were torn down to make way for modern skyscrapers. She eventually made her American reputation through her innovative formalist depictions of urban imagery. In 1935 she received federal funding from the newly established government art programs to continue her project which was eventually published in 1939 with the title, "Changing New York". In 1934 Abbott met Elizabeth McCausland a leftist art critic who's reviews supported new deal values of cultural democracy and social analysis. According to Terry Weissman, McCausland's interest in radical social change and economic justice influenced the conceptual focus of Abbott's architectural imagery. Abbott shared her life with McCausland from 1934 until the latters death in 1965. She `steadfastly` refused to be called lesbian, and like Georgia O'Keeffe also rejected praise as a woman artist. It seems possible, however, that Abbott took up the masculinized unfeminine formalist structural presentation - and you can see that in her photograph on the right - that made her image is so dynamic at least in part because she sought to escape any professional associations with either femininity or lesbian identity. Sharp focus and innovative framing provided her with a protective form of personal anonymity. According to Wiseman, Abbott and McCausland each affirm that the other was "her closest friend best critic and most important intellectual influence". Several people observed that Abbott kept a picture of McCausland next to her bed for the rest of her life after latters `demise`. This would seem unlikely had the relationship not been one of romantic love as well as support of friendship. Is it now possible to affirm this in our scholarship? Is it disrespectful of Abbott's wishes to use the term lesbian when she herself refused it? I don't have an answer for that, yet. I do, i'm calling her a lesbian. The relationship of another pair of women, one of whom was a successful professional photographer, Laura Gilpin, can also be traced through archival documents. Gilpin, who is known primarily as a photographer of the West, grew up in Colorado, and lived there and in New Mexico as an adult. Although she also studied in New York, was mentored by Gertrude Käsebier, and traveled in Europe. Her landscape photographs often demonstrate her boldness in choosing locations who's navigation required some `athletic prowess`. As you can see in both of those photographs on the right. These works were also admired for their poetic expressivity. 

From her early twenties while developing her professional career Gilpin shared her life with Betsy Forster, a nurse and social worker. In addition to their mutually supportive relationship, Gilpin benefited from Forster's connections to members of the Red Rock Navajo community in New Mexico, whose lives became the subject of an important series of Gilpin's photographs. One of which you see on the right. The two women's early devotion to each other is evidence in a series of love letters written by Gilpin to Forster in 1922, while the artist was traveling abroad, which fortunately are preserved in her papers. I can tell you my heart was beating fast when I found those letters at the Amon Carter Museum Archives. Letters exchanged later by Gilpin with her close friends `sculptor` Brenda Putnam also frequently mentioned Forster with the understanding that their relationship was a continuing closely connected partnership. Unfortunately Gilpin and Forster had to deal with frequent separation caused by their work `obligations`. In 1947 they were finally able to "set up a household together, after a close and supportive friendship of almost 30 years", according to Gilpin's biographer Martha Sandweiss. Yet the word friendship used here makes me grit my teeth. Published in 1986 Sandweiss' biography title, "Laura Gilpin: An Enduring Grace" still evidences the reluctance of scholars at that date to acknowledge that this relationship was not just one of `comradely` friendship, but also intimate affection, and probably also erotic connection. Evidence of that level of connection might also be reduced from several of Gilpin's photographs of desert sand dunes, whose gentle curve shapes evoking women's breasts are subtle and open to interpretation. But significantly different from images of sand dunes created by male peers such as Edward and Brett Weston or Ansel Adams. Where the men seem to approach this subject is offering dramatic opportunities for abstract pictorial design, Gilpin's images seem to suggest a very different quality of sensual delicacy and tenderness. It is not accidental, I would argue, that they were made at two of the moments when Gilpin and Forster were closest. The first in 1921 when they had just fallen in love, and the second in 1947 when they were finally able to live together in a sustained closeness. 

The next women I will discuss present variant lifestyles to the model of a single sustain long-term relationship. That their life stories also suggests committed lesbian like affections and identities. Clara Sipprell was another successful professional photographer primarily making portraits and `pictorialist` style landscapes. You can see three of her works here. She shared her life sequentially with three women, Jessica Beers, Irina Khrabroff, and Phyllis Fenner. In each case the women lived together, travel together, and the relationship lasted for multiple years. While there is no hard evidence from letters or other data that these were `erotic` or even fully romantic relationships, neither is there any evidence they weren't fully engaged life partnerships. Especially Sipprell's final 38 year connection with Fenner from 1937 to 1975. It's just a long time to have one roommate, you know. Sipprell's biographer Mary Kennedy McCabe suggested that Sipprell lived a bohemian and unrestricted life. She smoked pipes and cigars, drank `bourbon`, drove fast convertibles, and like to wear dramatic clothing and jewelry. Her emotional connections with these three women must have supported her independent personality while also facilitating, or in the case of Khrabroff, complicating her social intellectual life. They disagreed about Russian politics. Ruth Bernhard compiled an even more varied litany of romantic involvements. She informed her biographer Margaret Mitchell about her sequential affairs with multiple women, which included at least one sustained 10-year relationship. Although her last partnership which lasted thirty two years was with a man. Bernhard was also unusual in addressing the female nude as one of her primary subjects. Yet she asserted to Mitchell She asserted to Mitchell that her intention was to use severe formalist simplification to de-eroticize these figures and render them as abstract shapes. Her first foray into this imagery happened by accident. While working on a project, photographing industrial objects for an exhibition at the New York Museum of Modern Art in 1934, Bernhard had a huge commercial mixing bowl delivered to her studio. A friend who sometimes model for artists happened to be there and suggested posing in the bowl. Both thought this was funny, and you can see the result up there on the screen. Bernhard made three exposures and was delighted with the result, but she didn't follow up on this interest until she became friendly with Edward Weston a few years later, and became critical of his approach to photographing the female nude. Bernhard told Mitchell that images of female bodies by male photographers always suggested to her an underlying quality of "seduction and connection". Where as, she aspired to make images that would be purely formal and abstract or as she stated "a picture without desire". Perhaps by turning her female nude models into abstract shapes Bernhard was able to take on a major theme explored by her male peers while divorcing her photographs aesthetically from her social life. To the extent that any images of the nude human body can be fully separated from a subliminal invocation of sexual identity, Bernhard generally achieved her goal in these geometrically abstracted forms However the tenderness evoked by the touch of one woman's hand against the others back in the photograph title, "Two Forms" seems to prove the difficulty of fully achieving her attended goal. Nell Blaine, Betty Parsons, and Sonia Sekula, different from the artists I have discussed so far, in that they have each been acknowledged in recent scholarly writing on the 1940s and 50s as having lesbian interests. Although they didn't make it into those books. But again there's virtually no evidence of those interest in the works they created, with the exception of a few late works by Nell Blaine - which I'll talk about at the very end of my presentation. 

Yet Blaine's life story suggests the two significant relationships with women were deeply important to her emotional well-being. Blaine arrived in New York in 1943 at the age of 21. She studied with Hans Hofmann, joined American abstract artists, and gained early attention for her strong formalist geometric abstractions. Which you can see in that image. Then in the 1950s, she switched to a more painterly style, again as you can see, in her "Landscape near Oaxaca" from 1957. She continued this pictorial strategy for the rest of her career, despite almost losing the ability to paint professionally after contracting polio in 1959, as the disease left her permanently disabled. Despite having to use a wheelchair she was able to regain sufficient use of her right hand and left hand and arm to return to painting. She rebuilt her career with persistent determination. In her monographic study on Blaine published in 1998, Martica Sawin recounted the artist's lively friendships with other young New York artists and musicians, and her marriage to a male jazz musician, which was quickly annulled, with no reason given in Sawin's book. Art historian Gavin Butt notes that Blaine typically wore pants and several layers of t-shirts and never carried a purse. Anyone in here who is a lesbian knows those are clear indications of lesbian identity. All `heteronormative` characteristics that could be interpreted as signifying lesbian identity, although no evidence of Blaine's early relationships with women have been documented. Sawin charted Blaine's close connection with two women after her bout with polio. The first was a British - I want to say respiratory because that's what the Brits would say - nurse Dilys Evans, who met Blaine in Sinai Hospital just as she was beginning to recover, and lived with her as nurse and companion for the next six years. When Evans had to leave the US for a year because of immigration restrictions on her visa, Blaine went with her and they traveled together and painted in England, Europe, and the West Indies. In the painting on the left, "Dorset Gardens," was made in England. Blaine did need skilled assistants to manage her daily life routines, but Sawin notes that she hired aids to perform this work, and her relationship with Evans was one of emotional as well as logistical support. When Evans decided to return to England in 1966, Sawin writes that Blaine was "distraught over her departure". Later the same year, Blaine was introduced to Carolyn Harris, a young artist from San Francisco. Sawin explains that after a few visits, Harris moved to New York and they shared their lives for 29 years until Blaine's death in 1996, although they kept separate apartments and studios. Harris was clearly not Blaine's aid, or attendant, but a devoted and loving partner. Sawin carefully delineated these relationships but she seemed hesitant to acknowledge their full significance, perhaps at the behest of Harris, who was still alive when the book was published. The reluctance of scholars to name such artists as lesbians seem grounded in multiple complexities. Some of them, I have already outlined, relating to the use of the term itself, and to issues about being so identified in an art world still framed by varying degrees above homophobic and misogynistic hostility. To better understand the larger context which frame this dilemma in art historical writing, I return briefly to these images of lesbian activists, artists, and critics in the 1930s. I want to `reiterate` the variety of self-presentation among such women as an introduction to considering the changing attitudes to homosexuality within American cultural context from the late 19th to the mid twentieth centuries. In my title I referred to these contexts as the social imagination to emphasize the constructed nature of perceptions manifested in public discourse in variously complicated ways. Social anxieties throughout much of the 20th century have linked lesbian identity with fears of overly masculine women, `psychiatric` dysfunction, and unpredictable sexual predation. These fears began to be expressed in the late 19th century public discourse after the much-publicized sodomy trials of Oscar Wilde in England, and the emergence of psychiatric literature that post gay men and lesbians as social deviants. Lesbians were accused of being misguided and troubled women who wanted to live as men. At a time when concepts associated with the emerging ideals of new womanhood, where challenging established relationships of dominance and submission and heterosexual couplings, the threat of any further destabilization of gender differences was viewed as intensely problematic. For example, anxieties about women's threatening adoption of masculine social roles were enlisted in anti `suffrage` campaigns in the 19-teens, and found expression in numerous early 20th century anti suffrage cartoons. These images tended to pose `absurdly` masculine women as subjects of social derision, as historian Laura Behling has argued, to undermine the legitimacy of the suffrage cause. However, such humor, and it is funny, also degraded the identity of women who felt romantic love for other women, since it implied that their feelings were socially bizarre and unacceptable. 

Psychiatric theories developed by Freud and gaining popular attention in the early decades of the century also identified gay men and lesbians as deviants and inverts who manifested characteristics of the opposite sex leading them to suffer both inner `anguish` and social hostility. These notions were `exacerbated` in the popular imagination with the publication of Radclyffe Hall's controversial novel, "The Well of Loneliness" in 1928. Concerns about deceptively feminine lesbians who preyed on innocent female victims also emerged in the 1920s and were exploited in several theatrical productions in New York, including Somerset Maugham's play "Rain" in 1923, and a Broadway play titled, "The Captive" in 1926. According to scholar Kyer Kertain, both plays emphasize the danger of lesbian seduction for naive and unweary female characters who did not start out having lesbian inclination. Audiences were fascinated by these stories but the police were not. "Rain" was closed down as a "immoral public entertainment", but then reopen to a successful run before his producers went on trial. Perspective viewers stood in line for tickets to see, "The Captive". The popularity and notoriety of these plays suggest the tensions surrounding issues of lesbian freedom for male control in relation to changing mores associated with new `womanhood`. It seems telling that one theater critic noted Riley that Greenwich Village was full of such women. The meanings associated with cross dressed womens and lesbians in American films, made between 1910 and the mid nineteen thirties, also changed during those decades, as outlined by Laura Horak in her 2016 book, "Girls Will Be Boys: Cross-Dressed Women, Lesbians, and American Cinema". Early films, it seems, presented tomboy cowgirls, and featured stories about mistaken gender identity resolved, of course, through heterosexual romance. By the late 1920s, parallel to theatrical productions, films began to characterize cross dressed women as `devious` lesbians. Horric argues that the homophobic bias in these stories became increasingly legible to viewers. Lesbian identity was increasingly associated in the late 20s and early 30s with dissolute European cabaret life, and media publicity about actresses such as Marlene Dietrich and Greta Garbo, who wore men's clothing in private life, and didn't contradict rumors of their homosexual affairs, also shifted public perceptions further towards suspicion of lesbian identities. However, the history of attitudes towards lesbianism is filled with contradictions and these decades were no exception. In urban and alternative artistic communities, such as New York's Greenwich Village or Provincetown, Taos or Carmel, California, women were exploring concepts of liberated new womanhood and egalitarian ideas about freedom in sexual relationships. Some of those women experimented with what I have called "lesbian escapades" - experimenting with bisexuality while maintaining the social privilege adhering to their heterosexual partnerships with men. The `prevalence` of such exploratory ventures into lesbianism as well as long term previously unacknowledged relationships has been documented in recent biographies of women such as Eleanor Roosevelt, Margaret Mead, and Ruth Benedict and numerous other early 20th century women. While there's no proof of an intimate relationship between Georgia O'keefe and Rebecca Strand when they traveled together to New Mexico in 1929 to visit Mabel Dodge Luhan this photograph certainly hints at some emotionally meaningful experience, suggested by O'keef's excessively wide smile and Strand's hand on O'keef's thigh, a physical familiarity not usually typical for women in non sexualized friendships. The complexity of public attitudes toward lesbianism was intensified by the introduction in the early 1940s of a new genre of cheap salacious novels known as pulp fiction. These paper backs featured detective, mystery, and romance themes and the ladder included stories of lesbian seduction and betrayal. The narrative emphasis of the text predominantly authored by men followed the model of nineteen twenties plays by portraying lesbians as `stealthy` `predatory` `deceitfully` `perverted` femme fatales who seduced innocent normal women but eventually met their downfall through rejection or suicide. Patricia Highsmith's 1952 novel, "The Price of Salt" on which the recent film "Carol" was based, maybe some of you saw it, published under the pseudonym "Claire Morgan", that's why her name isn't the cover, represented a courageous effort to revise the tragic endings typical of these works. Despite the contrast between earlier concepts of inappropriately masculinized butches and the slightly feminine predators of the theatrical and pulp fiction universes, both conception served to reinforce the sense of cultural threat that lesbian supposedly presented to heteronormative assumptions in the social imagination. These contradictory cultural currents soon became even more complex. During World War II, the opportunities to meet other women in military service combined with pulp fiction narratives that made lesbianism invisible to people outside dissolute urban centers, like Greenwich Village, created an expanding awareness of a shared identity that set the stage for the nation's gay rights movement of the 1950s. However after the war, gay men and lesbians were confronting the terror of real or threatened outing by Joseph McCarthy's congressional investigatory committee and post-war purchase of homosexuals from the military and government institutions were announced in the media. As for the artists themselves, and for scholars, galleries, and critics to publicly identify someone as gay or lesbian was still viewed as a potential insult and a serious threat to be strictly avoided. This photograph with Nell Blaine and John Ashbery dressed in campy parodies of elite feminine and British boyhood attire, she's on the right, which was taken at a 1949 - well my partner asked me, "which one is Nell Blaine?" I thought I better specify - which was taken in a 1949 Halloween party in Blaine's studio. It suggests another contrasting shift in attitudes. According to Gavin Butt, by the late 1940s, younger members of bohemian art circles in New York and California were beginning to view homosexuality as a somewhat problematic but not unwarranted form of sexual self expression. Butt suggests that a factor in Blaine's early success may actually have been her connections with a diverse crowd of both gay and straight artists and musicians on the margins of high art society which eventually led to her acceptance at the gay friendly Thiebaug Nag Gallery and positive critical recognition. 

It's only a little bit longer. 

The social imagination therefore included multiple constructions of knowledge about lesbian experience. Popular media and medicalized discourses continued to frame gay and lesbian identity as psychiatrically and socially deviant and this led to demands for censorship and exclusion. At the same time lesbian women continued to find support in shared relationships and private social circles, or even marginally affirmative art communities, although the persisting homophobic climate continued to make cautious self positioning necessary for lesbian artists who sought professional respect. Given these historical contexts, it is not entirely surprising that scholars, even in the last two decades, have continued to exhibit reluctance about naming such artists as lesbians. This hesitation might be due to respect for an artist own reluctance to be so named, or to concerns about the reaction of their family or airs, or even worry over the effect such a claim might have on the value of their works. As Jonathan Katz put it, this silencing can occur "because of the art world's long time resistance to acknowledging any connection between high-value commodities and a sexual nonconformity of their makers" which might lessen sales or bring down prices. Whatever the causes, these `omissions` have also led to an absence of explicit discussion about the effects of same-sex relationships on the development of artists careers and this is distorted our understanding of these individuals full identities. I would like to applaud the efforts of archivists, scholars, and editors who have been updating the biographic texts on the Archives of American Art and SAAM websites, as well as Wikipedia entries and other sources so that they now acknowledge the existence of such relationships even if the conclusions drawn about their significance often are worded in a guarded way. Yet given the frequent absence of fully confirming evidence how can a more inclusive history be constructed? One strategy promoted by queer studies scholars such as Jennifer Doyle, is that researchers should move beyond typical professionalized insistence on interpreting conventional or recognized `iconographies`. Instead we need to read these artist's works Doyle suggest, from what might be called a queerly curious positioning, looking for subtle choices coded hints and what might otherwise seem to be invisible to the heteronormative eye. What we make of the clues we find, she argues, may depend on intuition and even gaydar. We might also turn to untypical but useful sources for art historians - gossip, as well as biography, imaginatively speculative readings of images, and exploration of seemingly coded symbolism. This strategy requires searching out not only what women wanted the public to know, but that which they revealed only to good friends, and that which they sought to keep hidden, and whose evidence they later destroyed. As well as being on the lookout for artists play with innuendo and humor. So in the spirit of Doyle's suggestions I will conclude this talk by briefly discussing works by two artists, who I argue, use a delicate insider joke in one case, and coded symbolism in the other to reference their lesbian partnerships. The first image comes from Laura Gilpin's Overa, a 1930s photograph of a tabletop game titled simply, "dominoes." Establishing its significance requires a little background information. In 1930, Gilpin and Forster made an automobile trip to visit ancient Indian ruins at the Canyon de Chelly. When their car ran out of gas in a remote desert era area near Chinle Arizona, they slept overnight in their bed rolls. Gilpin then left Forster with the car and all her camera equipment and walked two and a half hours back to a trading post to get more fuel. The traders wife drove her back and Gilpin was relieved to find Forster playing cards with a group of friendly Navajo men. Cards and other games such as dominoes were easy ways in which people camping, visiting with friends, or unexpectedly passing time with strangers might spend several hours. Yet the unusual arrangement of the tiles in Gilpin's image they also convey a hidden meaning. Dominos is a matching game, like-to-like, players draw sets of dominoes by chance, and double tiles are only slightly more valuable than mixed ones, but in this particular game the visible foreground tiles are all match doubles while the visible tiles in the background set are all unmatched. Since Gilpin do not usually make photographs of games could this image offer up a private playfully coded illusion? The game in the foreground tile group could both be read as a visual affirmation of Gilpin and Forster's lesbian relationship, like-to-like as the basis for the game itself, and then paired double tiles with matched numbers symbolizing their love and shared commitment as a couple. It is not unreasonable to imagine that this was a little visual joke in the context of a loving lesbian relationship themeatized encoded visual form at a time when more overt references were as yet visually unrepresentable to the public. A different kind of coded reference can be `discerned` in several still life paintings by Nell Blaine. 

In the 1970s - and I know this exceeds the dates of my talk, but I hope you'll understand - In the 1970s, Blaine began to include a signifying device in some of her images that might allude to her ongoing domestic and artistic partnership with Carolyn Harris. Blaine's earlier still lifes tend to show table tops with limited objects - perhaps a vase of flowers, a newspaper or book, or bowl of fruit - and you can see that in both the photograph and in 1958 painting that it represents, on the left. Once Harris was part of her life Blaine began to include pairs of cups or glasses in some of these scenes, as you can see on the table in "Summer Interior by Gloucester Harbor II," painted in 1971. Well Blaine was exceptionally sociable to offer and entertain visitors. These paintings do not show multiple glasses or cups suggestive of many people consorting on the table, but only cups in pairs. The paired cup `motif` is also visible in these two works painted in 1972 in 1979 and several others dating into the 1980s. Blaine painted many other types of still lifes and landscapes. All filled with the painterly brushwork and intensely observed coloristic relationships that typify her work. Yet this paired cup motif recurs in enough of her paintings that it seems reasonable to do that it has a specific meaning. It functions as a suddenly coded signifier of our ongoing relationship with Harris, a small but significant way of asserting the importance of their paired connection. In this talk I have presented accounts of some of the American women artists whose life stories document long-term lesbian like partnerships or sequential relationships, or suggest transient lesbian `escapades`. While i'm slowly building a longer list of these artists I recognize that my compilation is necessarily narrowed by the social constraints shaping who could afford to claim art as a vocation, get training, travel abroad, and create a professional career with very little economic assurance of success. The exclusion of artists of color from the White dominant environment of fine arts professionalism in these decades has left a significant racial gap in the historical record of lesbian artists. However despite these constraints I believe our art historical narrative still need to become more probing and complex. If we look for the subtle residences between particular women's self presentation, personal history professional works of art, and coded self-revelation and work more deeply in the archives the closet doors of homophobic `evasion` can be opened more widely. It was not just in `sapphic` Paris that American lesbian artists created successful professional careers. Thank you. 