https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akh4iSCqLJU

In the Kingdom of Ice | Hampton Sides | Talks at Google

```
barge           n. 驳船，平底载货船；华丽大游艇；（旗舰将官的）专用艇 v. 乱闯；（体育运动中）蓄意冲撞；用驳船运载（货物）
ingest          vt. 摄取；咽下；吸收；接待
anesthesia      n. 麻醉；麻木（等于anaesthesia）  
enigma          n. 谜，不可思议的东西
reckless        adj. 鲁莽的，不计后果的；粗心大意的  
grip            n. 紧握；掌握，控制；理解；不打滑，走得稳；手柄；紧握（或抓牢）的方式；（拍摄电影时）摄影机和照明设备管理人员；<英>发夹；旅行袋
haunt           v. （鬼魂）出没；萦绕在……心头；（长期）困扰；常去（某地）
ailment         n. 疾病，小病；不安
devastate       v. 毁坏，破坏；使极度震惊，使伤心欲绝
cumbersome      adj. 笨重的；累赘的；难处理的
obscure         adj. 昏暗的，朦胧的；晦涩的，不清楚的；隐蔽的；不著名的，无名的
colossal        adj. 巨大的；异常的，非常的
tangle          v. （使）缠结在一起；（使）乱成一团；处于混乱状态；（和……）争吵；打架
bow             n. 弓；蝴蝶结；鞠躬；琴弓；船头
malady          n. 弊病；疾病；腐败
fascinate       v. <旧>（尤指蛇）以眼神震慑（人，动物），使无法动弹；深深吸引，迷住
encore          n. 再演唱的要求；经要求而再唱        
eccentric       adj. 古怪的，异乎寻常的；不同圆心的，不正圆的  
keen            adj. 渴望的，热衷的；喜爱的，着迷的；热情的，热心的；（兴趣或感情）浓厚的，强烈的；思维敏捷的，敏锐的；（目光或听觉）灵敏的；（战斗或竞争）激烈的，紧张的；<英>（价格）低廉的，有竞争力的；<旧>寒冷刺骨的；锋利的，锐利的；（气味、光或声音）有穿透力的，强烈的，明净的
captivate       v. 迷住，使……着迷
haze            n. 霾，烟雾；懵懂，迷糊
sensation       n. 感觉，知觉；感觉能力，知觉能力；（某种经历所产生的）整体感觉，总体印象；轰动，引起轰动的人（或事）
spectacle       n. 景象；场面；奇观；壮观；盛大的演出；（复）眼镜  
blockbuster     n. 轰动；巨型炸弹；一鸣惊人者
circuit         n. 电路，回路；巡回活动，巡回地；环道，环线；巡回赛；赛车道；（英国）巡回审判区，巡回上诉法院；（一套）体操动作；统一经营的连锁剧院（或影院）
manifest        v. 显示，表明；（鬼魂或神灵）显灵，出现；（病症）显现；把……列入货单
courtship       n. 求爱；求婚；求爱期
drift           v. 飘移，漂流；任其自然地（或不知不觉地）进入（某种状态）；流浪，漂泊；缓慢移动；传出；吹积
descend         v. 下来，下降；下倾，下斜；降临，来临；（情绪、气氛等）笼罩；突然到来，突然造访；降低身份，堕落；衰落，陷入；遗传
strife          n. 冲突；争吵；不和
herald          v. 预示……的来临；宣布，宣传；热烈欢迎；公开称赞
psyche          n. 灵魂；心智
wreck           v. 破坏，断送（计划、关系等）；（严重）破坏，毁坏（车辆或建筑物）；造成（船舶）失事，使遇难；<史>毁船打劫；<美>（为获取有用的零件、碎料而）拆，拆除（破汽车、旧建筑物等）；营救失事船只；失事
afield          adv. 在远方地；遥远地；远离家乡地；在田野，在野外
maze            n. 迷宫；迷惑；糊涂
prowess         n. 英勇；超凡技术；勇猛
consult         v. 咨询，请教；商量，商讨；查询，查阅；当顾问  
clause          n. 从句，分句；（法律文件的）条款
noble           adj. 崇高的，高尚的；宏伟的，卓越的；贵族的，高贵的；惰性的
mutiny          n. 兵变；叛乱；暴动  
prevail         v. 流行，盛行；（在比赛、竞赛或争辩中）击败，获胜；占优势，占上风；（继续）使用；说服，劝服（prevail on/upon）
laud            vt. <正式>赞美，称赞
striking        adj. 惊人的，异常的；妩媚动人的，标致的；罢工的；打击的
labyrinth       n. 迷宫；[解剖] 迷路；难解的事物  
dilemma         n. （进退两难的）窘境，困境；二难推理，两刀论法
profession      n. （尤指需要长期训练和正规资格的）职业；（某）职业界同行，同业；（统称，指需要较高教育水平的）职业（the professions）；（信念、观点或感情的）公开表示，表白；入教誓言，修道誓约；入教仪式，入教
devise          vt. 设计；想出；发明；图谋；遗赠给
brawl           n. 喧闹，斗殴，闹事；布劳尔舞
naval           adj. 海军的，军舰的
expedition      n. 远征，考察；探险队，考察队；动作敏捷，迅速
plague          n. 瘟疫，传染病；鼠疫（尤指腺鼠疫）；（老鼠或昆虫等肆虐造成的）灾害，祸患； 普遍的祸害；烦恼事；<古>愿上天降灾难于……（a plague on）
infest          vt. 骚扰；寄生于；大批出没；大批滋生    
confiscate      vt. 没收；充公；查抄
epic            n. （讲述英雄冒险经历的）叙事诗，史诗；史诗般的书籍（或电影等）；壮举，惊人之举；<非正式>特别耗时费力的事（或活动）
obsess          v. 使着迷；使心神不宁；挂牵，念念不忘
congregate      vt. 聚集
```

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

MALE SPEAKER: Welcome everybody to one more Authors at Google Talk. Today with us is Hampton Sides with his new book "In the Kingdom of Ice." In the late 19th century, people were obsessed by one of the last unmapped areas of the globe, the North Pole. No one knew what existed beyond the fortress of ice `rimming` the northern oceans. Well, the theories about the foremost cartographer of the world, a German named August Petermann, believed that warm currents sustained at green island at the top of the world. National glory would fall to whoever could plant his flag upon its shores. James Gordon Bennett, the `eccentric` and `stupendously` wealthy owner of the New York Herald, had recently captured the world's attention by dispatching Stanley to Africa to find Doctor Livingstone. Now he was keen to recreate that sensation on an even more epic scale. So he founded an official US Naval expedition to reach the Pole, choosing as its captain a young officer named George Washington DeLong. On July 8, 1879, the USS Jeanette set sail from San Francisco. They faced everything from snow blindness, polar bears, ferocious storms, frosted labyrinths, madness, and starvation. This is a tale of heroism and determination in the most unforgiving territory on Earth. Hampton Sides is an award winning editor of "Outside," a frequent contributor to "National Geographic," and the author of bestselling histories "Hellbound on His Trail," of "Blood and Thunder," and "Ghost Soldiers." Please, join me in welcoming Hampton to Google. 

HAMPTON SIDES: All right. [APPLAUSE] It's good to be here. I had a bit of an adventure just getting here. They dropped me off at a building about 12 or 13 buildings over, and it was sort of like wandering around in the Arctic. But I got here. What an extraordinary, extraordinary place to work. The paperback version of "In the Kingdom of Ice" just came out two days ago, so I'm now on a book tour. I was in Seattle yesterday, but I'm moving about the country. And I always ask people when I first begin to talk about the Voyage of the Jeanette, `barring` those of you who maybe already read the book, how many of you had heard of the Voyage of the Jeanette prior to this? Big goose egg. Yup. And that's exactly what I encounter everywhere I go. And that's exactly the reason why I wrote this book. When I first heard about this while I was `on an assignment with "National Geographic"` to write about another Arctic explorer in Oslo, the great scientist and explorer Fridtjof Nansen. I saw in the museum there in Oslo all these references, continuing references to the Jeanette expedition, the famous American `voyage` from the Gilded Age. And I'm an American. I said, well, why haven't I heard of this? What is the Jeanette? And sometimes it takes asking just an obvious question like that to begin to bore into a story. And so I came home. I began to read the primary documents and got really, really interested in this story. It took me three years to do it. I traveled all over Siberia, and the high Arctic, and the Bering Strait, and all over America in pursuit of it. I had of ball doing this story, and I'm going to today talk with you a little bit about some of my travels in pursuit of the Jeanette story and give you some of the background about what the expedition was about. The men of the Jeanette that survived, they returned home as great heroes. They were household names. They were lauded and celebrated. There were `blockbuster` newspaper stories and magazines stories. There were parades in Manhattan. There were monuments erected to them all over the country. The survivors were entertained by the `Czar` of Russia, Alexander III. The story was the subject of bestselling books. The journals and diaries of the commander became a bestselling book. But it's completely obscure today as the numbers here bear it's a story that slipped through the cracks of history. One place though where it is quite well known is this place. This is the Jeanette Monument at the Naval Academy in Annapolis where George DeLong and his men are celebrated as part of the Pantheon of great Navy explorer heroes. And when I was on the book tour, a former `midshipman` came up to me at some point and said, yeah, the Jeanette Memorial. That's something that they used to always require us, almost like a `hazing` ritual, at midnight to go and count the number of icicles on the monument and report back to the authorities or whatever. I guess it's your tax dollars at work. OK, so the Voyage of the Jeanette was really based on trying to prove or disprove an old, old idea, an old theory that goes back as far as the Greeks and the Vikings but really came to be `crystallized` in this map, a 1592 Mercator map which showed very clearly an open polar sea. Through the ice in this symmetrical way, they believed there were portals that led through the ice, and that it was warm up there, and that there was an iron mountain in the center of it, which of course explains why compasses work. Obviously, a flawed idea, but once you get an idea like that `enshrined` in a map, especially a beautiful map, and a widely circulated and important map, it becomes increasingly difficult to `dislodge` that idea from the public imagination. So what you really had was several centuries of scientists, and pseudoscientists, and sometimes cranks, and various authors and explorers who tried to prove or disprove the existence of this fantastical body of water. Open polar sea. Of course, the Vikings had an idea. It was called Ultima Thule, someplace beyond the ice where it was warm year round. And there were various tropical and exotic animals believed to be there. The Greeks had Hyperborea, which they talked about, and believed that there was beyond the ice, again, a mountain range where the Griffons lived, half lion, half eagle. In the 1800s though, you begin to get a bunch of really bizarre ideas coming out of particularly the United States. John Cleves Symmes was one of these `cranks` who believed that at the top of the world, there were these big holes that led down into the Earth, and that there were people who lived down there. And they were just dying for us to go find them. And he was very influential. He sold out lecture halls everywhere he went. Members of Congress were taken with his idea. This is what it was supposed to look like from the pages of "Harper's Magazine," Symmes's hole as it would appear to a Lunarian with a telescope. The hollow Earth theory, holes at the poles, this idea I thought a very antiquarian, quixotic idea. But then I googled holes at the poles. And lo and behold, there is this large subculture. I mean, not large but fairly intense subculture of people who still believe that there are holes at the poles. And this is a supposedly confiscated, censored NASA photograph. There are people down there. They want us to find them, but the administrators, particularly the Obama administration, has done everything it can to prevent us from knowing about its existence. So the idea has been very slow to die. And it seems to be fairly deeply embedded in our `psyche`. Jules Verne had popularized the notion of an open polar sea further with the publication of his book, "Journey to the Center of the Earth," although he brought it underground. There were `subterranean` lakes that in his novel figure into the story. Mary Shelley, of course, was fascinated with the North Pole. Doctor Frankenstein pursues his monster all the way to the North Pole in the novel. Now, moving beyond scientific theory to just fact, we know who lives at the North Pole. We know what's there. Santa Clause is there. And I thought this must be a pretty old idea, but when I was doing the research for the book, I found out that really the idea of `Santa` being at the North Pole came from this cartoon from Harper's from the 1860s which shows him with his helpers and his workshop up there. So during the 1860s particularly, and 1870s, and into the 1880s, you get this intense polar fever that begins to build, particularly in the United States-- this nagging, gnawing, need to know what was at the top of the world, one of the last unmapped areas. It drove people crazy. And it also had an element of nationalism for the United States. After the Civil War, emerging from the devastation of the Civil War, we began to flex our muscles around the world stage, wanting to compete with the Brits who had done most of exploring, of the course the Russians and some of the Scandinavian countries. But we wanted to stake our claim in the Arctic and had recently purchased from the Russians Alaska. And there was a real curiosity about what was north of our new territory. No one had been there. Some Arctic whalers had been along the edges of the ice, but no one had ever really seen what was north of Alaska. 

Now, there were a number of scientists who were interested in this question but also very much interested in the open polar sea theory. One of them was this guy, Dr. August Petermann who you alluded a to in the introduction. Petermann was the foremost mapmaker in the world at that time. Google Maps had nothing on this guy. He produced these absolutely beautiful hand colored but mass produced maps that brought in the latest findings from explorers. And they came back from Africa, or they came back from the interior of Australia. He would pencil in the new information. And so these were up to date and highly sought after maps. And from this platform-- and he published all these maps in Germany in a place called Gotha. And he was widely sought after. He was popular in the lecture circuit. And on this platform, by virtue of his maps, he was able to `promulgate` his various theories, almost all of which were wrong, about what was at the top of the world. But people believed him because he was `erudite`, he was a German scholar, and he also had excellent facial hair, like a lot of the characters in this book. This is one of his master works, "The Atlas of Physical Geography." His birthplace, I went to Germany and tried to begin to understand his world and the power of maps, the power especially in that age when they were just a few areas left in the world that had never been touched by man. 

The monument to Petermann in Gotha. But this begins to show a little of the theories on which the Jeanette expedition was based and Petermann's idea. We were beginning to learn that the Gulf Stream was a powerful current that brought a lot of heat from the tropics north through the Atlantic Ocean and past England, past Norway. No one knew precisely where it went. And Petermann's theory was that it met the ice, tunneled under the ice, softened the ice as it went, and eventually went to the North Pole. There's another current that they were also beginning to learn about on the Pacific side-- I don't know if you can see that-- called the Kuro Siwo, which is indeed a powerful current in the Pacific that goes north towards the Bering Strait. So his theory was beautiful in its symmetry, somewhat `grandiose`. But it was that these two great currents met at the North Pole and it was part of a massive thermo-regulation system of the planet. And the key word here being "supposed open sea," but again, you begin to see all these ideas on maps and it just becomes impossible to get rid of the idea until explorers unfortunately have to go and live or die, suffer, at any rate to prove the theory. 

Somebody who was captivated by Petermann's ideas was this guy, the third richest man in New York at the time, the publisher and editor of the largest newspaper in the world, `the New York Herald`. This is James Gordon Bennett Jr. who was this Gilded Age character, a spoiled brat, a guy who got pretty much everything he wanted, a reckless adventurer himself, a lover of spectacle. He was the youngest `commodore` of the New York Yacht Club. He won the first transatlantic yacht race. He was famous for driving coaches around Manhattan nude at midnight. He publicly urinated into a grand piano at a party, a salon in New York, which got him ostracized from New York society. And so he said a plague on all your houses. I'm moving to France. So he ran his newspaper by transatlantic cable from Paris. Then he created "The Paris Herald," which became "The International Herald Tribune," which still exists and is the last remnant of his empire. Anyway, you can't invent a character as outsized or as grand as Gordon Bennett Jr. 

This was his newspaper, a very influential paper, important paper also because he believed not only in reporting the news but creating spectacles that would generate more and more news and big `blockbuster` stories. He had all these `fetishes`. For example, he was really into Pomeranians. He had hundreds of them. I've seen a lot of dogs here on the Google campus, but he was in a particular thing about Pomeranians and consulted them for various pieces of advice. He was also interested in owls. He had stuffed owls, living owls. Owls were his personal symbol and the symbol of the paper. This is the headquarters, which shows owls on the eaves there. And it was interesting. The eyes of the owls lit up with red lights, and then they would wink at you at night. One of his many yachts, this is the Lysistrata, which had a 200 seat theater. It had a Turkish bath. And it had padded `stalls` for his dairy cows so he could have fresh cream every morning for breakfast. 

So this is the Gilded Age, just tremendous sums of money, certain individuals who had and were able to `wield` a lot of power with this money. And he pretty much got what he wanted. Now, my wife and I, of course we felt we had to go to Paris to research Gordon Bennett. And this is one of his mansions in Paris, a villa on the south of France near Monaco where he kept the Lysistrata. We barged our way into the house and there's still people living there. And they knew all about Bennett. There were signs of Bennett everywhere, including owls all over the place. Bennett's also famous for bringing international ballooning to the forefront. He created this balloon race which still exists, the Bennett Cup. So that's one of his legacies. But he's most famous for sending this guy-- this is Henry Morgan Stanley-- to Africa to find Livingston. Livingston, I presume. Livingston wasn't really lost. He didn't really need to be found, but it made for a great spectacle, and a great series of dispatches in "The New York Herald." So really, Bennett was looking for an encore to Stanley Livingston when he began to cultivate this idea bank rolling an expedition to the North Pole to test the theories of August Petermann. He hired this guy to lead the expedition. This is George Washington DeLong, the commander of the Jeanette, a graduate of the Naval Academy, someone who had been to Greenland, had devoted the rest of his life to trying to figure out this planetary enigma. What's at the North Pole? He wanted to be the first to do it, and to do it for his country, and for his Navy, and for science. Bennett purchased this vessel, renamed it the Jeanette after his sister Jeanette Bennett. And DeLong sailed it around the Horn from France to San Francisco in 1878. And in San Francisco, it was massively reinforced for the ice, practically rebuilt. And then they begin to stuff it with all the latest American inventions, including Edison's lights, which had just been designed. They were still being perfected. They weren't quite ready as it turned out. Telephone equipment from Alexander Graham Bell, telegraph equipment. They wanted to be able to communicate over vast expanses of the ice. Many, many, many kegs of Budweiser beer. They had a state of the art library. They had an `organ`. They knew they were going into the ice, and this was going to be a long, long voyage. They had enough food for three years. And they left San Francisco in the summer of 1879. 20,000 people were there to celebrate and to send them off into the Arctic. Yeah, you had a question? 

AUDIENCE: Yeah, just wondering how many people were on the ship. 

HAMPTON SIDES: 33 men, Captain DeLong and 32 men. They headed north past Alaska. That last stop was Alaska, where they picked up 40 dogs and two `Inuit` Hunters. It was a very international cast of characters. There were five or six Naval officers. There was a surgeon. There was a `meteorologist`. There was a naturalist. And there was an ice pilot, someone who had a career really in the Arctic as a whaler. And there were two Chinese cooks that had been hired in Chinatown in San Francisco. So it was a `motley` crew of individuals heading north to test Petermann's theories. Went through the Bering Strait, through the Chukchi Sea, past Wrangel Island. They didn't find a warm water current. They did not find the open polar sea. What they found was ice, a lot of it. They got stuck in the ice in September of '79 and began to drift in the ice in a northwesterly direction, and they drifted for two years-- two years. About a mile a day. Every day is more or less like the next, sort of a Groundhog Day kind of thing. And it presented an interesting dilemma for me as a writer because I didn't know exactly how to tackle the problem of those two years. So I did something I didn't think I would ever do, which is kind of a `cinematic` thing. I had a little break at the end of one chapter, had a next section and just said "one year later." 

`Because every day was almost identical to the next.` So during these two years, DeLong had men out every day measuring the ice, taking lots of measurements of `barometric` pressure, temperature, the specific gravity-- all kinds of things. It was like floating or drifting ice station, Arctic ice station, really-- as they worked their way north. During this two year period, the men really get to know each other, a lot of togetherness. And some of the characters really emerge as real striking characters in the book. And I grew to know these men, to love them, sometimes to hate them while I was writing them. Some of the ones that really emerged-- this is Melville the engineer, a distant relative of Herman Melville the writer. An amazing man who could fix anything. And believe me, everything went wrong during this expedition and he was called upon. For example, the ship was constantly leaking as the ice was `strangling` the whole of the vessel. And so he devised a series of windmills to bring up all the excess water. Kept the ship afloat for those two years. This is Melville as an old man when he became engineer of the entire US Navy and ultimately a Rear Admiral. There's Collins, the Irishman, who was the meteorologist and the scientist onboard. Interesting man, brilliant man, but unfortunately he had a `propensity` for delivering `puns`, like really, really bad puns. And he couldn't help himself. Now that's fine. We've all been around people like that for two days or something. That might be fine. This was two years. Everyone wanted to kill Collins. There was Ambler the surgeon, who saw every kind of `malady` you could imagine, particularly vitamin deficiencies. There was lead poisoning. There was polar bear liver ingestion problems. I guess that's vitamin A. He saw it all and had to be quite creative in treating these various `ailments`. One of the ailments that he had to treat was Danenhower's case of `syphilis`. Turns out that Danenhower, who was the navigator and a brilliant man, also a graduate of the Naval Academy, it turned out that he had `syphilis`. And it manifested itself in the form of an eye condition called syphilitic iritis, which required dozens and dozens of operations without `anesthesia` down in the ship. And he had he could not tolerate any light whatsoever. So he had to wear these `goggles` the entire voyage, somewhat symbolizing this voyage, this doomed voyage, that you have essentially a blind navigator. Not a good thing. 

So they drifted though. The first year was kind of like this, just all over the place. They circled back on themselves many times, which was extremely frustrating. But finally the drift smoothed out and they worked their way to the Northwest. DeLong by this point had completely given up on the open polar sea theory. He was cursing Petermann's name, but he thought he might not sail to the North Pole, but he might drift there in the ice if the ship, which had been massively reinforced, if the ship could withstand the pressure, he thought they might drift to the North Pole because they were heading in the right direction. He had dogs. He thought maybe he could get out on the ice and make a dash for it. Every day, as I mentioned earlier, the men were out on the ice taking measurements of everything. And the log books, which ended up in the National Archives in Washington, they're very heavy folio size books. When I was reading them, I was just thinking, gosh. The journey that these books took to get into the National Archives. They're heavy. They're cumbersome. DeLong had to make some strategic decisions about keeping them as things go from bad to worse during the expedition. But there they are. But when I was reading them, I was thinking, you know, this is terrible. What a waste of all this energy, all this data, just hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages of data about the condition of the Arctic. And I thought what a waste. But then I found out that NOAA, in tandem with a group called Old Weather, has been taking the DeLong journals, and digitizing all this data, and using it, ultimately, to study the condition of the Arctic. Because when you talk about global warming, one of the problems they've always had is no one really knows what the condition of the ice was 150 years ago. Because to do that, you'd have to go to a time machine back to the 1800s. You'd have to ram yourself in the ice. You'd have to drift for two years in the ice and take daily measurements, even hourly measurements. No one would do that, right? Well someone did, and it's George DeLong and his men. And this is `a stretch of the Arctic` no one had ever been through before. And these the log books are proving extremely valuable now in these studies that are going on. When I do these `narratives`, I like whenever possible to travel to the places I'm writing about. This story mostly takes place in the Arctic sections of Russia. So I got myself a really bad haircut and I went to Moscow first to get a bunch of permits. Because unfortunately, I couldn't just go across from Alaska. I was going to a lot restricted areas. So a "National Geographic" fixer person helped me get these permits in Moscow. And then I flew-- what is it? Eight, Nine time zones east? All away to the east coast of Siberia to Anadyr where I picked up this Russian ice breaker-- it's not quite fully an ice breaker. It's a reinforced vessel-- And headed north. I thought it was pretty ridiculous that I had to travel 13,000 miles to look at my own country, Alaska. Heading north, waving at Sarah Palin as I went along the northeast coast of `Siberia`. Amazing place. Mostly uninhabited. We did stop at this one village where they had just killed a whale, and they were having a summer festival, and invited us ashore. And we stayed there for a few hours. I took this with an iPhone. But there were soldiers with `Kalashnikovs` that didn't really want us to be there. They `ushered` us back to the ship and we headed north in the direction of Wrangel Island, which is where we were going. There was a French documentary crew that was doing something about woolly mammoths. There were various atmospheric scientists. And then there was just a whole bunch of intense birders, like really, really into birding. Professional birders almost. As we headed north, we encountered more and more ice until we got through this place. This is looking straight down from the bow of the ship. And I just took this again with an iPhone. But it gives you some sense of how quickly the ice give can build up. And this is in the month of August. So that brought us to a complete halt. We had to back up and refigure our course. But we eventually reach our destination, which was Wrangel Island. Wrangel Island is a very interesting place. It's been called the Galapagos of the high north. It's got a huge amount of wildlife-- Pacific walrus, and snowy owls, and snow geese, and Arctic fox, and polar bears-- lots and lots of polar bear. August Petermann thought that it was a continent. It had only been glimpsed by some Arctic whalers, and it looked pretty large. And he had this grand theory that it was actually Greenland, that Greenland came up over, not quite the pole but near the pole, and all the way to the other side. And that this was the tip of Greenland-- another one of his obviously wrong ideas, but an interesting place nonetheless. It's uninhabited. There are four Russian `rangers` who live there, are stationed there. And when we came ashore in these little Zodiac rafts, these Russian rangers were so happy to see us, so happy to see fresh human life. And we were happy that the two or three cabins that there were all reinforced on the windows there with bear guards. Because there are polar bears everywhere. They `congregate` in larger and larger numbers there because during the summer, the ice is increasingly unreliable. And this is one of the only `scraps` of land for thousands of miles in any direction. So this is one of the places that they go. I was there with a `photographer` named Sergey [? Gorshkov ?] who has been going to Wrangel for over a decade, taking these amazing wildlife pictures for "National Geographic Magazine and a story that I wrote that came out in March of 2013. 

Arctic fox puppy. They're constantly battling over these snow `geese` eggs. Sometimes, the geese win. Sometimes, the foxes win. `Musk ox`. Also excellent facial hair. So that's Wrangel Island. It's an extraordinary place and was one of the goals that DeLong was reaching for. When he realized that he was going to be stuck in the ice, he then began to hope, well, at least I can land on Wrangel and explore Wrangel. But he was able to get there. The ice took him up, and over, and around it too quickly. So he never landed on it. Another thing about Wrangel is it's believed to be the last place on Earth where woolly mammoths lived some 3,000 years after they became extinct on the mainland. So you see `tusks` all over the island in `riverbeds` like this. And Sergey just took this shot of me. I tried to fit it into my overnight bag. It wouldn't fit. It's extraordinary though. You these just everywhere you go. 

DeLong did not reach Wrangel, but another American vessel did reach it that summer of 1881. They were looking for the Jeannette at that point. They wanted to get some tidings of what had happened to the Jeanette because it had been gone for two years. Onboard that vessel was the father of the American environmental movement, John Muir, who then was a young newspaperman. And he wrote beautifully about the search for the Jeanette that summer of 1881. He becomes a pretty important character in the middle of the book. After Wrangel Island, I went on to other parts of Russia, including the Lena Delta, which is by some counts the largest delta in the world. The Lena River is a massive river that empties into the Arctic Ocean in central Siberia. And I wanted to go to a place called America Mountain. 400 miles north of the Arctic Circle, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of this delta, is a place called America Mountain, known there still to this day as America mountain. It's a monument that was built in the 1880s to the Jeanette. It took me forever to get there. I did a story for "Outside Magazine" that got me up the river. I had to get on riverboat, and then a smaller boat, and then finally a raft. And then finally at the end, I just had to start wading across all this water, swatting mosquitoes constantly. It was the most mosquito infested place I've ever been. We finally found America mountain and got to the top of it, and found the monument more or less as it had been left from the 1880s. That's taken about 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning, that photograph. It doesn't get dark in the middle of summer. 

Anyway, back to the historical story. So all through 1880 and 1881, the men of the Jeannette are drifting in a northwesterly direction. But finally in June of 1881, it becomes clear that the ship is not going to withstand the pressure. DeLong doesn't have much time. He can tell the ship is sinking. He gets all his stuff out on the ice. And a lot of decisions had to be made about what to bring because if he could tell it was going fast. And finally it did sink to the bottom of the Arctic Ocean. This is a French painting that maybe makes it a little more heroic-looking than it actually was. But it sank to the bottom, and DeLong and his 32 men and 40 dogs are out on the ice with their three open boats, small whale boats, with no other choice but to drag these boats and their few belongings south to the nearest landmass, which was the central Arctic coast of Siberia. Now, we know exactly where the Jeanette sank. DeLong took exact measurements when it sank, and it's in Arctic waters, not very far from the DeLong Islands, because DeLong and his men discovered three islands. And there's a group of scientists, both in Russia and in the United States, NOAA scientists, also the US Navy and a Russian group of scientists as well as the Russian Geographical Society. They're all interested in finding the wreck and photographing it, and maybe bringing up some `relics`, including those lights of Edison's that didn't work, and also the photographs. All the photographs that were taken of this expedition on glass plates went down with the ship. So there's a movement now. Even though our relationship with Russia officially is not very good, there is a movement to try to build an expedition for next summer. So we'll see how that goes out. I'm very excited about it and want to go. 

OK, so in the summer of 1881, back in America, what was happening? Well, first thing, Bennett had decided that summer it was time to bring the sport from England that was known as tennis to the United States and introduce it to the country. So he built this enormous palace. It's called the Newport Casino in Rhode Island. It's now the international Hall of Fame for Tennis. So while the men are out on the ice cap, Bennett is back in `Rhode Island` introducing tennis to the United States and not suffering so much. He invites DeLong's wife, Emma DeLong, up to Newport for some tennis and `yachting`. The Gilded Age, you know? It's a good time. And Emma deLong becomes a pretty important, I'd say a very important character, in the middle and end of the book for a variety of reasons. Mainly, she wrote beautifully. She wrote these beautiful, beautiful letters, and I had this rather amazing experience, which I think historians dream about. Historians dream of this thing where you find a descendant of one of your main characters. And that descendant tells you, hey, you know, I just happen to have this trunk full of letters in my attic. Would you please come and take it off my hands? And that's exactly what happened. I heard about-- actually cold called this woman Catherine DeLong in Connecticut. She said she had this trunk full of letters, and it was the personal papers of Emma DeLong. Please take them. Give them-- donate them to a library somewhere eventually. But this is me and Catherine DeLong at the Explorers Club in New York City, which is an amazing place, the Explorers Club. Lots of taxidermy. But she loaned me these papers. And in the papers were all kinds of things, love letters all from the courtship days of Emma and George. But also these letters that she wrote in the summer of 1880 and 1881 and sent north by way of these Arctic whalers in the hope that somehow, some way, they would reach her husband. And they're beautiful, beautiful letters. And it really becomes a love story in the middle portion of the book. One of those letters she sent by way of Greenland. And it ended up in a hut in far, far northern Greenland. And Robert Pearey on his way to the North Pole found it. And he knew immediately who it was from. And it still had the red wax seal on it, which you can see there. And he stuffed it in his furs, and eventually got it back to New York City, and hand delivered it to Emma DeLong. So that letter is in that trove. So during the summer of 1881, DeLong and his men struggle over the ice. They have just the summer to do this. They know that once winter comes, they're not going to survive it. They don't have enough food, so they have to constantly hunt for polar bear, and walrus, and seal, which they prove to be very successful at. You'll be glad to know that the dogs are not eaten. They have plenty of other things to eat. My editor wants us to do a companion book that would be the Jeanette Cookbook, like permitted walrus fetus, all kinds of good stuff. But they survive, and in fact, they thrive. And in a weird way, this is maybe the happiest period of the expedition. Because they're struggling every day. They're in excruciating pain, but they're getting tremendous exercise and they're working for this common goal. DeLong organizes the men extremely well into these three teams. They compete against each other, and they work their way south over the ice. And they are on the ice for 92 days till they finally come to open water. Most of these Arctic stories have the perfect trifecta of `scurvy`, `mutiny`, and of course `cannibalism`. And this has none of those, and I think it's a testament to the leadership of DeLong and the camaraderie of this group that they held this thing together for those 92 days. And it's an extraordinary survival story, really, in this part of the story. So this shows their general path south. It starts out that they are going south. You see here they go north. And that's not because they didn't have a compass. It's because they struggled south and had a really productive period of about two weeks where DeLong thought they were making great progress, but then he took a positional reading, and they realized that the ice was drifting faster north than they were moving south. The whole ice pack was moving, and so it was a Sisyphean effort. They were moving backwards. Then it evens out here, and then they work their way south. They discover this island right here, Bennett Island, which they declared American soil, raised the American flag. And just as John Muir's group, when they landed on Wrangel Island, they declared American soil. But the United States didn't do much to press their claim on that land, and it's now Russian territory. So they worked their way through these islands that are called the New Siberians, working their way towards the Lana Delta. When they finally encounter open water, they want to put their whale boats in the water. But it turns out they are not seaworthy. Dragging them all over the ice, banging them up the whole time had created leaks. So Melville and his carpenters rebuild these boats using driftwood, whalebone, `walrus` tusks, whatever they can find. They somehow patch them together and they finally set sail in late August in open water when they encounter a massive gale, practically a hurricane. And the three boats are separated from each other. And really that is where I end my talk, because the last 150 pages, 200 pages of the book are about what happens to those three boats and the very different fates of the three boats as they work their way toward land and toward safety. So that's the story of the Jeanette as they work their way, really, towards this delta, a place that is said to be about the size of three Florida Everglades, except a frozen `Everglades`, a labyrinth. So these men are trying to find safety and trying to find each other in incredibly tangled maze and this incredible landscape. 

So that is the story of the Jeanette. Don't Google it. This is Google, but don't Google it. You can find out what happens, but I believe this story is much more powerful, much more `haunting`, and much more beautiful if you don't know the fate of these men and what happens to them. Don't read the New York Times Book Review, which is a complete plot summary of my book. I think you'll really find the last 200 pages or so extremely `gripping`. And it's a great survival story. It's a great story about men who stick together through incredible `strife` and `striving`, and are incredibly loyal to each other as they try to make it to safety. So that's the story of the Jeanette. I'd love to hear from you. Any questions from the audience about how I write these books, how I research these books, narrative history? Any questions at all? [APPLAUSE] 

AUDIENCE: Why do you think this tale hasn't really gotten the same kind of publicity as like Franklin or `Shackleton` or any of these other disaster explorers? 

HAMPTON SIDES: It's a good question, and I've thought about it a lot. And I think that there's a combination reasons. I mean, one is that I think the British are much better than the Americans at celebrating their noble failures. In fact, they love those stories. In America, we like to win. We like we like to achieve and succeed. And I think Perry, Perry reached the North Pole although that's `contested` in 1909 with Henson. And we love that story. That's the story that we focus on a little bit more. The Franklin Expedition was a colossal failure. Shackleton wasn't exactly a failure in the sense that no one died. But they didn't reach their destination. I think that's one of the reasons. Another thing is that all the photographs went down with the ship. We're a very visual culture. Those Shackleton pictures are amazing. They are truly amazing, and I think one of the reasons why Shackleton is so well known is because of those extraordinary images. I think it's also just kind of a `burnout` thing. I mean, this was so big in its time. It produced so many different books. And all the survivors had their own accounts. And Emma DeLong had her account. DeLong's journals were published and became bestselling books. So it did have its day, but it just burned out and then tell between the cracks. And then Pearey came along, and other explorers who took the story farther. So those are some of the reasons. Maybe there wasn't a good writer who came along to deal with it. And I hope I've begun to make a `dent` in this. Because I do truly believe it is one of the great survival stories, one of the great adventure stories of all time. And it is sort of the American Shackleton, if you will. 

AUDIENCE: So two very different questions actually. What you had said made me think of another one. What else would you put in the Pantheon of great adventures? And then the other unrelated question is how does the process of writing this book compare to your other books? 

HAMPTON SIDES: Pantheon of great adventure stories? Wow, that's tough. There's certainly Nansen, who I mentioned at the beginning. What's extraordinary about Nansen is he tried to duplicate the Voyage of the Jeanette in a differently designed vessel, the Fram, this boat that he had built. And what happened was with Nansen, Fridtjof Nansen from Norway, he found out that some relics of the Jeanette had washed up on shore in Greenland about five years after the Jeanette voyage. And one of them was a pair of seal skin pants that had on the inseam a little tag that said George Washington DeLong. And he realized that meant that these pants had come up and over the pole and had popped out on the other side in Greenland. And so he `surmised`, correctly as it turned out, that that was the prevailing pattern of the wind and the drift of the ice, the currents. And so George Washington DeLong didn't make it the North Pole, but his pants did. And he got to thinking, well, why don't I just ram myself in the ice in exactly the same place that DeLong's men did, and drift in the ice? He wasn't looking for the open polar sea anymore. Just use the ice, work with it. And that's what he did. And his adventure-- "Furthest North" is the book that he wrote-- is an extraordinary story. They got very close to the North Pole. realized he wasn't going to reach it. And he got out on the ice with his dogs and another guy. And they made a dash for the pole. They didn't quite make it. They turned around, couldn't find the Fram. 

MALE SPEAKER: He's unofficially called the Father of Oceanography as well, Nansen. 

HAMPTON SIDES: Yeah, yeah. I mean, he was a brilliant scientist. He was a statesman, and he ultimately won the Nobel Peace Prize. Extraordinary man. So I put Nansen's adventures at the very top of all the Arctic adventurers that I've read about. Of course, there's Amundsen. The Scandinavians, the Norwegians are the best at this kind of exploration, I think. The question is how did this differ from my other books? You know, the biggest difference is I had to go farther afield than any of my other books. I like to travel to wherever the story takes place, but this one, it was really hard to get to Russia. I mean, luckily there was this little window where our relationship with Russia was pretty good. And I was able to get those permits and go to these restricted areas. It was expensive though, and complicated, and `logistically` involved. But I love doing that. That's the fun part of doing these stories. And it pays off in so many ways in the way you write about ice, or you write about the tundra, or any of these passages I have. It gives you a confidence about describing landscape that you couldn't otherwise get. And I also just wanted to understand the Gilded Age. It's just such a fascinating period, you know? America's beginning to look familiar. It's not quite there yet. It's still a `brawling` teenager that's trying to figure out what it. It has a lot of ambition. It has a lot of technological prowess, but it's still not quite a mature country. And so you get people like Bennett. You get people like `Edison` and all these inventions that are happening. And it's trying to flex its muscles on the world stage. It's a really interesting time. All right. I'm going to sign some books if you like. Thank you very much. Pleasure being here. 