https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f71Rasj_0JY
10:47
```
interplay       vi. 相互影响，相互作用
precede         v. 处在……之前，先于；在……之前做（或说）；比……更重要，比……（级别）更高  
delegate        n. 代表；委员会成员
premise         n. 前提，假设；（企业或机构使用的）房屋及土地（premises）；上述各项
holistic        adj. 整体的；全盘的
dispute         n. 争论，辩论，纠纷  
abdicate        vi. 退位；放弃
accuse          v. 控告，指控；指责，谴责，归咎于
jury            n. 陪审团；（竞赛的）裁判委员会
mandate         n. <法律>授权，委托；任期；命令，指令；托管权，委任统治权；账户代理书面委托
overt           adj. 公开的，不隐瞒的
exert           v. 运用，施加（影响）；努力，尽力（exert oneself）  
contemplate     v. 沉思，深思熟虑；盘算，打算；凝视，注视；考虑接受（发生某事的可能性）
defect          n. 缺点，缺陷，毛病
indict          v. 控告，起诉，告发
erode           v. 侵蚀，腐蚀；削弱，降低
refrain         v. 克制，避免  
collude         vi. 勾结；串通；共谋i
obstruct        v. 堵塞，阻塞（洞口、通道、道路等）；遮住，挡住（视线）；阻碍，妨碍
constitute     v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命  
counsel         n. 忠告，建议；辩护律师；<古>咨询，磋商
impeach         vt. 弹劾；归咎；怀疑 
```

Mueller Report: A Lawyer's Analysis (Real Law Review)

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - 

This video was made possible by Tab For A Cause. Raise money for charity just by opening tabs which you were going to do anyway, link in the description. The Mueller Report is finally out, and in it, Mr. Mueller created a one-way street that could not have found the president committed a crime, but it could have found him innocent. And unless you understand this legal framework, you won't understand the Mueller Report at all. 

Hey Legal Eagles, today we are talking about the Mueller Report. I'm going to try to explain the legal framework that Mueller and his team created and based their conclusions on, because frankly, it colors absolutely everything in the report itself. Mueller starts the report by setting some legal ground rules. This decision changes the course of the entire investigation. Mueller starts by noting that there is an Office of Legal Counsel or OLC opinion, and a DoJ policy not to `indict` a sitting president. In fact, I covered this entire issue on a video about whether a sitting president can, in fact, be indicted based on current Supreme Court precedent, which I'll link down below. Mueller's view is not an unreasonable one. This very issue has never been tested by the Supreme Court, and there are, in fact, contrary OLC opinions and differing views on the constitutional limits of indicting a sitting president. So, starting with the premise that a president cannot, in fact, be indicted by the Department of Justice, Mueller says that his hands are tied because of quote fairness concerns. Specifically, Mueller says that the power of the government to accuse someone of committing a crime has to be balanced by constitutional protections, including the right of the accused to a quote neutral adjudicatory forum so that the accused, if they are in fact accused of a crime by the government, can clear their name. Now, it is absolutely 100% true that things like due process, a right to a speedy trial, a right to a jury, a right to face your accusers, it's all incredibly important and enshrined in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. 

But because Mueller accepts that he cannot indict the president and put the president through a formal trial, the president would not have those protections. In other words, the president would not be able to potentially clear his name through a trial and the other mechanisms that we normally give to the accused. So, `given those two premises`, that because Mr. Mueller cannot indict the president and because the president cannot clear his name, that it would be wrong to come to a formal conclusion that the president broke the law. Mueller notes that these considerations disappear when the president is not in office, because when the president leaves office, he is available to be accused and indicted of any crimes that he may have committed. In other words, Mueller is leaving it to Congress to impeach, for the president to resign, or for the president simply to leave office for the normal mechanisms of the judicial process to kick in. On the other hand, because the same fairness concerns don't exist with respect to finding someone innocent, in other words, no one is going to dispute the fact that you have found them innocent and try and challenge that finding, Mr. Mueller finds that he can come to the conclusion that the president was innocent or that the evidence did not amount to an `indictable` offense. So based on the rules that Mueller set up, there was no way that Mr. Mueller could have found President Trump committed any crime. This is a standard that does not exist anywhere else in criminal law or, frankly, in politics. Now, that's not to say that this standard is wrong or was `improper`, this is a standard that may have to exist based on the idiosyncrasies of the Executive Branch and the interplay between the separation of powers between the president and Congress. But at the end of the day, Mr. Mueller created a one-way street. The Mueller investigation could have found the president innocent, but it could not ever have found him guilty. As one of you Legal Eagles pointed out on Twitter, so in oversimplified terms, they were allowed to rule not guilty, or not not guilty, and they ruled not not guilty. And that's basically right. Mueller states in the report that quote "Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, "we are unable to reach that judgment," that judgment being that the president is innocent. So, given this legal framework, we might ask, what's the point of the Mueller investigation. Mueller decided to tie his hands in the first instance. I don't know if in fact this is constitutionally mandated, I don't think anyone does, it's never been tested in the Supreme Court, but it's a very safe position. It puts the ball in the court of the political institutions, namely Congress and the judiciary. And it's hard to argue that in a world where institutions are being eroded, norms are being destroyed and powers are simply being claimed by various parts of the government by `fiat`, that this isn't a good decision on a political level. Mueller is clearly putting the ball in the court of Congress, and by proxy, the American people to make the decision on this particular case. 

On the other hand, a lot of people are going to look at this decision and call it an `abdication` of the power that was specifically delegated to the special counsel. That we created these rules in the wake of Watergate and eventually the Clinton impeachment hearings specifically to deal with these types of cases that are the hard cases. And if it's not the special prosecutor that's going to deal with them, then who is? These are difficult questions and those are reasonable positions to take on both sides. But according to Mr. Mueller himself, because the investigation definitively could not conclude that the President of the United States `obstructed` justice and colluded, the purpose of the investigation was to quote "preserve the evidence when memories were fresh "and documentary materials were available." So effectively, Mueller viewed his investigation as one to gather the evidence, to preserve it, and to give it to the powers that are going to be responsible for actually making a decision. Now, I wanna be careful here, I don't view the Mueller Report as an impeachment referral as some people have suggested. Mr. Mueller clearly contemplates, and even states, that Congress has an oversight role of the Executive. And in fact, Mueller states that Congress can punish the president for his actions. That is in fact one of its constitutional duties. So for better or worse, I think that we can view Mr. Mueller as the `quintessential` institutionalist and we can view the Mueller Report as the safest institutional play that the special counsel could have issued. 

So given that this was an evidence gathering mission, let's examine the evidentiary findings. In a prior video about the Barr Summary of the Mueller Report, I asked the question whether this was a case where there was, in fact, no evidence, or whether this was a case where there was a lot of evidence but not enough to meet the beyond a reasonable doubt standard. Well, this report is worse than that. With respect to collusion and conspiracy, the Mueller Report finds that there was actually quite a lot of evidence, including a string of incredibly damning situations, but looking at that `holistically` wasn't enough to be able to charge the president with the crime of conspiracy to collude with the Russians as that is defined in the Mueller Report. 

However, with respect to `obstruction` of justice, it's a whole different ballgame. The Mueller Report finds numerous places where Mr. Mueller probably found obstruction beyond a reasonable doubt, for example, in one passage, Mueller says quote "Our investigation found multiple acts "by the President that were capable "of exerting undue influence over law enforcement "investigations carried out through one-on-one meetings "in which he sought to use his official power "outside of his usual channels." And in other places, Mr. Mueller found quote substantial evidence of obstruction of justice. And in one of the most damning passages, Mr. Mueller states that "The president's efforts to influence the investigation "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because "the persons who surrounded the president "declined to carry out his orders "or accede to his requests." It's hard to read these sections and not come to the conclusion that Mr. Mueller thought President Trump committed obstruction of justice but only refrained from saying so based on the legal framework that he created at the start of this investigation. Because obstruction of justice includes not only obstruction itself but attempted obstruction, in the same way that firing a gun at someone is attempted murder, even if the bullet is defective and doesn't, in fact, fire. Mr. Mueller lays out 10 instances of possible obstruction, analyzes them, and mostly comes to the conclusion that given those facts and the relevant law that the situations can give rise to obstruction of justice. Here in this visual representation, we can see one commentator color coded all of the different elements of obstruction and compared that to the 10 instances of potential obstruction by the Trump administration. And you can see that most of the elements are met for most of the potential instances. But at the same time, Mr. Mueller does not give a standard by which we can measure his conclusions. 

For example, Mr. Mueller does not say that we are certain beyond a reasonable doubt that this is an `overt` act as required by obstruction of justice or we are certain beyond a reasonable doubt that the president had the corrupt motive required for obstruction of justice. But remember, based on the rules that he created, he could not come to that conclusion. Instead, he leaves it to Congress, and to us. 

If this video leaves you wanting to make some positive change in this world, you're not alone. I'd recommend Tab for a `Cause`, which lets you raise money for the charity of your choice just by opening up new tabs in your browser. Tab for a Cause is a Google Chrome extension that allows you to pick a charity, and then every time you open up a new tab, instead of it being blank, it displays a couple of ads and the money you generate is donated to your charity. There is no charge to you, and it actually does some good for this world. Tab for a Cause users have raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for charity. It is the easiest possible way to do some good in this world. So click on the link in the description to download the extension, and do some good by doing what you were going to do anyway. Surfing the internet. Do you agree with Mr. Mueller's framework? Do you agree with my analysis? Leave your objections in the comments and check out my other Real Law Reviews over here where I talk about whether a sitting president can be indicted and a bunch of other topics, where I'll see you in court. 