WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en ♪♪

[THEME MUSIC] ♪♪ 

MICHAEL STOLER: Health care, 2016, Obamacare, insurance companies, urgent care centers, ACO's, what's happening, insurance companies leaving exchanges, I don't know the answer. So today I've assembled this group of dynamic health care leaders to provide their insight on health care 2016. My guests include Dr. Andrew Brotman who's the senior vice president, vice dean for clinical fairs and strategy at the N.Y.U. Langone Medical Center. Arthur Klein who is the president of the Mt. Sinai health network. Dr. Andrew Racine who is the chief medical officer of the Mantefiore medical system. ANDREW RACINE: Health system. MICHAEL STOLER: Health system. So you know you used to be a Bronx boy only then you' expanded, because a part of health care is to expand, now you're in Westchester. You're the eight hundred pound gorilla, okay, you have all of these facilities. I pass Mt. Sinai Queens, then you have Brooklyn. And you, you know in your quiet little way you know you guys are opening up with Lutheran and other things and then these Article 28's like the Tisch Health Center you know on Fifth Avenue. So where do you see 2016 specially when we read in the newspapers that the exchanges you know Health Republic and United Health Care are leaving, what do you see this for reimbursement and operational. ANDREW BROTMAN: Well I think your opening was on point. I think the answer is we don't know and we are trying to navigate an environment that is unknowable. There are some things that are clear. The inexorable move to ambulatory care from inpatient, greater access to patients in facilities and environments that are less structured is happening, both because of technological reasons and because of economic reasons. How that ultimately fits in to an overall system and whether we move profoundly into population health management or not, some people think that's an answered question and we're going there. I'm not sure and I think you need to be prepared for all eventualities. MICHAEL STOLER: When you bring that out, one of the leaders, okay is Mantefiore, the population health management. I mean you've been around with ACO concept since 1965. How do you see that today and explain to my audience what the A.C.O. concept is. Cause people think you know you go to the doctor, how do they get reimbursed, people aren't aware that you want to keep people healthy and you want to reduce the amount of examinations and tests. ANDREW RACINE: Right, well let me begin by agreeing exactly with what Dr. Brotman was saying because I still think there's a fair amount of uncertainty in the entire health care sector. My own view about what's happening with regard to the exchanges and people bouncing in and out is that this is simply a pricing issue. No one is quite certain about the right market price for this product and as a result being risk averse they're going to stand back and see what happens but ultimately when we know who are in these exchanges who aren't and we know the little bit more about them. Those price variations and fluctuations are going to settle down, people are going to be able to intelligently price their product. And people who may now say they're going to be out they'll be back in. I'm, you know this is something that, there's a way for intelligent insurance companies to make money in the exchanges. I believe the eventually do it. The issue about the A.C.O. though is a really interesting one and I think it grows out of the experience that we've had In Mantefiore living in the Bronx and working in the Bronx and it has long been the case that we're an institution that believes on the basis of our empirical experience that most people's, if you will experience with health and with illness grows out of what's going on in their lives in general and if you're going to be able to control that you have to have some information about other aspects of their lives. And that really means being able to take advantage of information about what people are doing in general and be able to work with that. To do that intelligently in our mind will allow you to take risk for what's going to happen with them eventually, if you know enough about people and you have enough experience in interacting with other parts of their lives you can actually keep them healthy. MICHAEL STOLER: Now doesn't the government compensate you if you have a good ACO? ANDREW RACINE: So the way the ACO works is essentially it's a contract with the government that allows you to take risk on patients and what the government essentially says is the following. We're going to attribute a certain number of patients to your system on the basis of their past utilization, we'll sort of talk a little bit about whether that attribution is right. Once we agree about who you are responsible for you are going to try to manage the cost of those patients over time. We're going to also construct another cadre of patients that look exactly like yours but are not. They're just sort of out there and we're going to track the cost of caring for those patients over time. And if you, with your cadre manage to come in at a cost that's lower than what that comparable population is, we'll split the difference with you in those savings and if so. MICHAEL STOLER: So it's a cost sharing. ANDREW RACINE: Yes, that's exactly what it is, it's cost sharing, that's exactly what it is and so you have to be willing to say yeah we think we can do this on the basis of our previous experience, let's go ahead and try. MICHAEL STOLER: But let's look at healthcare 2016. You know you're building a hospital, your changing your facilities and all the rest and at one time someone would go to the hospital and the average number of days were four or five days. The average day today is what. ANDREW BROTMAN: Well at our place it's 3.9 for everything. ARTHUR KLEIN:And we're pretty close to that at Mt. Sinai. MICHAEL STOLER: 3.9, but let's look at the old days okay, and let's look at the surgeries, you know not surgery center, we're talking day surgery. I mean I think you've done it and I'm certain that all of you have been pretty close to getting people out with hip replacements in a day and a half today, which is unusual. This was, you know hip replacement was a long time. ANDREW BROTMAN: Yeah, 16 hours, and there's no question that things are moving to the ambulatory sphere. I think there's also no question as Dr. Racine says that there is a move for health care deliverer's to take on more risk and I think the question is how do you best do that, what kind of infrastructure, what kind of care. MICHAEL STOLER: There's a question, take on more risk, you can become like North Shore LIJ or whatever they're calling themselves now, taking the risk of being an insurance company. ARTHUR KLEIN: But Mike I want to give you kind of an opposite perspective to that and I think the commonality and I agree with everything my colleagues have said, the commonality of the three of us in this room is we all represent highly evolved academic medical centers. And the piece of health care which the public frequently forgets, which the government frequently forgets is just like we're trying to deal with new paradigms of health care delivery being more efficient, getting patients out the hospital, getting them to safer environment, more ambulatory care. We're also each of us heavily invested in new technologies, heavily invested in new investigations and so we're trying to change health care in two ways. We're trying to be more efficient and responsive deliverer's of health care given what we know about health care delivery today. At the same time each of us leads institutions that are at the forefront of new discoveries, new technologies. And the unpredictability when you talk about health care whether it's 2016 or 2020 is what technologies are going to govern what we do, what drug innovations are going to change things we now, we used to talk about genetics now we talk about precision medicine, custom design drugs and while you say that we're getting patients out of the hospital faster I would also argue that we're dealing with sicker and sicker patients all the time. Lifespans are increasing, the number of interventions we consider safe as people have advanced disease or advanced age is increasing and we have to balance both of those equations. MICHAEL STOLER: If we walk around the city of New York or any part of the country we see all of a sudden these urgent care centers. I remember at one time and it was something that you weren't part of but it was a Beth Israel continuum, they were the first that they were in the Duane Reade, okay, but they were, you know it wasn't a full facility was a small doc in the box in those who would be able to dispense and really there were no X- rays. Now we have a 125 with at least 55 in various stages of development in the city. Some of the leasing brokers have said to me that the biggest tenant is the Chop't salad Store and the CityMD and you know. ARTHUR KLEIN: They've replaced Starbucks. MICHAEL STOLER: They've replaced Starbucks, I saw an owner at a holiday party the other day and I said who you putting in and this is on 50th Street and second Avenue and he said oh I just put another CityMD in, I said there's a guy across the street. I mean where do you see that in your operations? The urgent care center, the other dynamic situation of where people are utilizing the Skyping to discuss patients or the you know to, you know somebody has a bad cold with something instead of going anywhere even to the urgent care center, the idea of Skyping, you can get a prescription. Where do you see this in your system, your system and so on? ANDREW BROTMAN: You know the urgent care center and we have a couple and a relationship with others is incredibly convenient for the consumer who has the type of illness, if you want a flu shot, if you hurt yourself marginally, if you're ill, it's extremely convenient to go to an urgent care center. Whether that model survives or not depends on how the rest of the system survives. What concerns me about the model is that most of those systems are not connected to the rest of the health system. So it is quite possible. MICHAEL STOLER: Right, if you're not part of that, they don't have the medical records of all the. ANDREW BROTMAN: Exactly, so you can go to, you know four different places in two days and none of the other three have any idea of what happened except if you, if you tell them. I think that will change. I think these systems will begin to join the rest of the system, at some point we'll have better interoperability of the electronic health records, which right now really is still poor and there will be an evolution. ARTHUR KLEIN: So I agree with Andy, I think we would all agree that basically volume driven transactional Medicine at this point in time that appeals to generational changes and demographic changes we see in our city but we have to figure out a way it's `incumbent` to figure out a way upon us to figure out a way to bring them into our systems because there's a reality they are seeing billions of patients and that's undeniable. I think they're. MICHAEL STOLER: So they can be a revenue source because they can generate patients, the same way that you have hospital hospitals in Brooklyn and you have a Lutheran over there that certain cases that you're going to bring them back to the mother ship, the `tertiary` hospital can handle certain things, even with Westchester. ANDREW RACINE: I think you're right, I think but getting back to Dr. Brotman's original point, we don't know, we don't know how these things are going to evolve over time it's a continuum of how people are going to want to purchase convenience which is essentially what's being purchased here. And right now it may be more convenient to go to an urgent care center tomorrow it's going to be more convenient to go to C.V.S. because they can do it at less expense than the urgent care center, they don't have the same fixed costs. After that it's going to be more convenient to call somebody up on the phone. And for so much of what people are using these centers for that evolution is going to continue over time and where it ends and how it's not something. MICHAEL STOLER: I'll give you an example I was about a year ago I fell and I thought I had torn ligament or something like that and I was going to go to the urgent care center and I said you know what they don't have all of the diagnostic X-rays so I'm going in there, it's a step gap, I'm not going to accomplish so I did go to the emergency room because it was more efficient as opposed to making a couple of stops. ANDREW BROTMAN: Well that that's part of the issue. MICHAEL STOLER: I mean it was a determination in my mind because I was maybe a smarter consumer. ANDREW BROTMAN: The consumer has to be quite educated as to what level of care they may need. An urgent care center doesn't need an M.R.I., 98% of people don't need an M.R.I. so you'll probably be right. MICHAEL STOLER: Coupled with the insurance companies not going to pay because to get an M.R.I. you have to get approved first. ARTHUR KLEIN: But the flip side is let's say you had a sore throat and you're going to take a business trip tomorrow you either don't have a primary care doctor or your primary care doctors office is closed, you've just left work and you want to make some decisions about travel, antibiotics, etc, they're a very convenient way and you're likely to get good care. The problem is and I think these all turn into economic decisions we have to make and calculi we have to do. It's a question right now they save money from the emergency room visit when it's inappropriate to go to an emergency room but the flip side of that equation is they're expensive primary care when a family doctor or primary care doctor could answer the same question and is likely to be reimbursed less. MICHAEL STOLER: In there there was an article saying that before they had an affiliation they weren't unable to negotiate with insurance companies so they were seeing patients and eating up a loss because they didn't have a reimbursement schedule. They didn't have an affiliation time. ARTHUR KLEIN: My experience in having worked with several of them as we all are is that they have less problems getting commercial insurance rates and they generally need to be part of systems in the Medicaid sphere. So I think the article may have misstated that a little bit Mike. ANDREW BROTMAN: And many of them as a result don't take government payments. MICHAEL STOLER: So they don't take Medicare or Medicaid. ANDREW BROTMAN: Sometimes. MICHAEL STOLER: So here's the question another phenomena, I was at a friend's office the other day and one of my neighbor said to me is the concierge. What is this idea of the concierge doctor, OK you know you will have the benefit, they're no longer in the system, I don't want to see, how do you see the concierge doctor? ARTHUR KLEIN: I think it's, we all deal with a very unusual health care delivery model in this part of the world, it's something that doesn't exist in most other localities with any vibrancy if you would. There are certain people who want to pay again for health care when they want it, want immediate access to the doctor that they choose. MICHAEL STOLER: But you know, I think it's a misnomer because the concierge saying I'm limiting my number of patients is not saying I have this, if too many of those patients all have a condition at the same time that person is one human being or a small group I don't see. ANDREW BROTMAN: Well the concierge is a single person insurance company who basically says pay me a certain amount of money, I will decide how many I can handle, that's a guess, that's a bet, if I get overwhelmed, I'm in trouble otherwise. ANDREW RACINE: Except they're not on the hook for the real costs. Imaging, drugs, hospitalizations, ER visits. ARTHUR KLEIN: And they also don't necessarily give the care themselves, a good deal of the concierge model is I'll personally make the appointment for you with the orthopedists. I'll make sure you get into the rheumatologist I like or the cardiologist I like. That's a big part of it they act as a maitre'd not just as a health care deliverer themselves. ANDREW BROTMAN: I think one of the big issues is about cost being the leading issue is what do you do where and three quick examples. We can now cure hepatitis C, Jimmy Carter just said he doesn't have cancer anymore through immunotherapy and we can now stick heart valves in through the vasculature and get people out of the hospital in three days but that valve costs $32,000. And I guess part of people say well but that's such a small part of the population we can handle that cost, maybe it is maybe it isn't. How do we deal with real improvement of care but high cost technology in an environment? MICHAEL STOLER: What about the new Proton Center, I mean how much is that going to cost. Right. This is something, you're building this facility, I know a number of the hospital are partners in the situation, you know I'm not aware of what the reimbursement level is but you know it's a very expensive proposition. ANDREW BROTMAN: It is, a proton center arguably there are other approaches that can help but this hepatitis drug it's a miracle. ARTHUR KLEIN: It's miracle. ANDREW BROTMAN: It's a miracle and immunotherapy let's see, I'm not sure we know but it has the chance of really having an impact. And these things are hugely expensive. MICHAEL STOLER: Advertising today you turn on the television, you turn on the radio health care is one of the biggest advertises, health care and the pharmaceutical companies. So the question comes in that people say to me oh pneumonia, forget the flu, the flu is nothing I mean that's a baby thing. You know do I take a shot for the pneumonia, do it take a shot for. ANDREW RACINE: Meningitis. MICHAEL STOLER: Not meningitis, the other, the one shingles. I've had shingles; I've had it twice okay. The question is you know part of its driven by the commercials on T.V. that the pharmaceutical companies are driving this and part of it is you see all of the systems and you know you pick up the Sunday New York Times where they used to have more real estate ads, I see more ads from every one of the systems sitting here and the rest of them. You know do we see more of that, I mean and we were discussing what's the value, what does NYU with the Made in New York which I think is a very creative ad program okay, and the Mt. Sinai and the Montefiore, what do you see and you're a big advertiser up in the Bronx and that's your market where do you see the role of advertising. The people when they're saying I have cancer and the one thing, one cancer center is these guys out of Philadelphia who I. ARTHUR KLEIN: Cancer Center's of America. MICHAEL STOLER: Cancer Center's of America, they are getting that middle America person saying oh, they are good. Now somebody like myself who understands they have no affiliation with anyone and I don't know the credentialing of these doctors but middle America hears this ad. ARTHUR KLEIN: So that's a complex question and I mean I think each of us would approach it a little bit differently simply because every advertising campaign has different drivers. It may be that you're looking to enhance your national reputation because scores and US News and World Report and other national accreditation or national survey instruments are important. It may be because you're keeping up with the competition. So you may not be the initiator but you don't also want to be the not running person. It may be because and I have this, I'm sure my colleagues do too, every time we recruit star talent the first thing they ask is what's the budget to promote me, aren't you going to advertise me. So there's an expectation of that. Sometimes you've changed. MICHAEL STOLER: You know something you bring up something interesting but I, with all the advertising that I see with the exception perhaps of one your doctors, okay the heart doctor, I haven't seen too much on advertising specific doctors. I've seen the advertising with regard to different services and different lines but I haven't seen the doctor ads. ARTHUR KLEIN: Well I think implicit in some service lines is promoting a new doctor who's bringing a new service in. But it is, it is a complex environment and it does eat up a lot of money. ANDREW BROTMAN: I think the, I think the predominant reason for systems like ours to do it is brand recognition and reputational status as opposed to getting patients through advertising. I think that reputational status is increasingly important and we are also playing to our constituencies, our own doctors. If they see the other's advertising and we don't. ANDREW RACINE: The board of trustees. ANDREW BROTMAN: Our board of trustees gets very upset or pleased depending on one's reputational status and. ARTHUR KLEIN: And I did have one other thing, which is sometimes as with our current advertising campaign it's a way of announcing to a very broad public why we envisioned becoming a health care system and some of the things we like to stand for. MICHAEL STOLER: Look, you took a large merger so you have a specific model and you're trying to show if the conglomeration of all the hospitals-  ARTHUR KLEIN: Exactly. MICHAEL STOLER: And the staff and the doctors, so you're trying to get a message across at a certain time. You did, I think part of it was after Sandy and part of it was the situation. Montefiore is the Bronx but also showing the ambulatory care surgery center, the affiliations up in Westchester I think that's part of the situation. Speaking about affiliations. Do you see more and more, not specifically this is a generic question as opposed to a specific question. Do you see more and more mergers perhaps taking place in the twenty in 2016, 2020? ANDREW BROTMAN: I call it consolidation. I see more and more consolidation whether it's in the form of merger or part of a clinically integrated network or part of an ACO or part of something like that, more and more consolidation. And I think that there are areas in Greater New York where there's you know real concern will the music stop and there won't be a chair to sit in and will there be the proper distribution of health care within the city to take care of the people who live there. ARTHUR KLEIN: I think everyone feels a little bit more confortable being under some tent today given all the uncertainties cause each of us has echoed, we really don't know what the answers are. And I think the other thing is that our large systems have become a proxy for the state being unable to take over some of the responsibilities of failing or problematic institutions. And there is an expectation that the healthy vibrant systems take some of that responsibility on. MICHAEL STOLER: Where do you see, I mean you went to Westchester, which is not far from your geographical neighborhood. Do you see yourself going? I remember when Arthur was on the show a couple years ago with Tony Ferrari you know you went after the same hospitals that you were trying to go after to increase. Do you see yourself going? ANDREW RACINE: I think the issue for us is less hospitals than it is patient population, I mean we are trying to get to a million covered lives which is really what we think is the size of an institutional footprint that we're going to be looking for and the communities that we are investing in in that regard in Westchester actually are very similar to some of the people that we've already been taking care of in the Bronx so it's really not so much hospital here or hospital there it's really more. MICHAEL STOLER: So you're talking about patient lives. And what about you know, I just read that North Shore is the largest employer in the state of New York today. Do you see more of the Long Island hospitals being taken over or affiliations with your hospitals? ANDREW BROTMAN: Absolutely. Again not necessarily mergers or more acquisitions but groups of providers seeking lives as you described and trying to work together to manage them as best as they can will continue to happen, it will definitely happen in Suffolk, the rest of Nassau County and Brooklyn will continue over the next year. ARTHUR KLEIN: And when you've got a very large system like North Shore it perforce makes other hospital's think well do I belong in that system, what other partnerships help me survive. So it becomes basically a market changer. MICHAEL STOLER: What about the national exposure of like the Cleveland Clinic, having an affiliation or certain type of programs with hospitals here, do you see yourself- You have the National Denver Hospital idea, where is that. ARTHUR KLEIN: Well that's a very academic affiliation and I think we all come from cultures where we like share academic talent, intellectual talent and that's what's a driver of that relationship. MICHAEL STOLER: So what we're going to do next year is probably invite you back and see if our discussion continued and where it really took place. ANDREW BROTMAN: You'll probably be able find us all in a drugstore trying to attract people and giving them care at a storefront. MICHAEL STOLER: I don't think that. I'd like to thank Andy, Arthur and Andy and I'll see you next week. ♪♪ [THEME MUSIC] ♪♪ 