https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYigCx2jHFM 


```
grip     n. 紧握；掌握，控制；理解；不打滑，走得稳；手柄；紧握（或抓牢）的方式；（拍摄电影时）摄影机和照明设备管理人员；<英>发夹；旅行袋
escalate    v. （使）变得严重，（使）升级；迅速增加，迅速增长；逐步增强，逐步升高
prophet     n. 先知；预言者；提倡者
wholesome   adj. （食物）有益健康的；有益身心健康的，增进身心健康的；（显得）健康的，朝气蓬勃的
gainsay     vt. 反驳；否定
renovate    v. 修复，翻新（尤指建筑物）；使恢复活力      
grind       vt. 磨碎；磨快
intercede   vi. 调解，调停；求情，说项
echo        n. 回声；重复，附和，共鸣；相似之处，再现；回声插入；（话语结构和内容的）重复；（桥牌）回声信号
extort      vt. 敲诈；侵占；强求；牵强地引出
flare       vt. 使闪耀；使张开；用发光信号发出；使外倾
mighty      adj. 强大的，巨大的；（动作）用力的，需用力的    
prompt      v. 提示，鼓励；促进；激起；导致；（给演员）提白  
```


Gilgamesh vs. Humbaba - Bronze Age Myths - Extra Mythology - #2 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Battles with a `demon`. Prayers with a goddess, a super `dope` roadtrip. We've got it all, on this episode of: Gilgamesh and Friend! *banjo solo* *Theme Music* 

When we last left off, basically everyone was telling Gilgamesh that going to fight Humbaba was a really bad idea.. but Gilgamesh was all like: But I really wanna kill him though, dudes; Because seeing how Humbaba was still very much alive, It meant that nobody had killed him yet, which in turn meant Gilgamesh could do something no one else had ever done. of course by that logic Of course, by that logic he could have just literally killed anybody else that was still alive, or really just probably brushed his teeth But who am I to `gainsay` heroes? So, Gilgamesh went off to get some sweet buffs before killing the giant guardian of the forest of the gods. what might be the best buff of them all you might ask? A blessing from the gods. So he dragged his new friend and wrestling buddy Enkidu to meet his mom, and Gilgamesh's mom the goddess Queen Ninsun was all like: Ah, you look nice today, honey. Who's your little friend? So Giglamesh introduced Enkidu and said: *ugh* Mom, can you just like, `intercede` with the gods for us, *sigh* Okay, honey. she said, and proceeded to take seven baths of `tamarisk` and `soapwort`. because; Hey, baths are super relaxing, and be, gods just seemed to like you better if you bathe for some reason So, I mean that's just two birds with one stone right there. Afterward, she got on her best gown, went up to the roof, grabbed a sensor and said: Shamash, why did you have to make my son so proud? and after guilt-tripping the Great God Shamash for a while basically `extorted` a blessing to help Gilgamesh out.. but the way it was phrased though, it sort of sounded like the blessing was for her family. So being very clever she was like: Wild boy Enkidu, come here. I'm just going to adopt you real quick. And BOOM. Gilgamesh and Enkidu were brothers. So the brothers mesh went off to do some monster slaying. It was a long way to the forest of the Cedars but being *echoing voice* HEROES OF LEGEND. They walked a hundred and fifty miles a day closing the distance in little time, then on the third day when they rested enkidu made a house of the dream god air quotes Which we'll assume for the `wholesome` nature of this show is entirely substance free. Ok Alright once completed Gilgamesh went inside crashed hard and proceeded to have `prophetic` dreams. The next morning he woke screaming. Oh god Oh god a mountain fell on us bro, but Enkidu was all like, whoa, don't worry, man It's a good `omen` the mountain was totally Humbaba and you were capturing him from underneath not being crushed by him at all dude and Gilgamesh never the sharpest cookie in the box was like oh Cool and took Enkidu's explanation at face value Three days later though. He went back into the house of the dream God again, and he awoke once more crying dude, dude, dude Dude, dude this time I was Wrestling a bull right but it kicked up like so much dust that the world turned black and it forced me to my knees. But then like a handsome bro came up to me and gave me a nice drink. So I don't know what to think bro. ever the pragmatist Enkidu replied? Woah Rad dude! Good omen the bull was totally our protector shamash and the dude was totally your dad. Gilgamesh once again come they walked on and three days after that it was of course back into mr. Magics Happy Hut for Gilgamesh. this time he woke up `trembling`. The heavens screamed the earth shook Lighting rended the sky and Fire burned the ground dude! And when the fire `flared` it rained death and all that was left in the world was cinders Bro. and Enkidu positive as always replied sweet throats good omen, bro Because that dream was the most metal one yet And once again, they went on their way Now this dream diary stuff happens twice more, on sections of tablet that have largely become a fine powder by this point. But it's safe to assume that Gilgamesh had More dreams of ever `escalating` terror which Enkidu let him know were totally about his success good wingman there Finally they near the forest of Cedars Gilgamesh cries out to shamash for eight and shamash tells him that he better go right now and `smash` Humbaba Because while the giant usually wears seven layers of armor, he's only sporting one right now. He must have just woken up so so These two heroes being `mighty` men of manly mine Spring right into action, but even as they leap to fight the giant fear `grips` Enkidu How can they win against such a powerful beast? But Gilgamesh tells him that they'll win with the power of teamwork because that's how a team works. and so they rush off again and finally encounter Humbaba who opens up with some really serious smack talk about how Enkidu doesn't even know who his mom is and Therefore is only worthy to talk to turtles who in this universe apparently don't know who their mother is either Sure, okay, but then once the tuff turtle talk is done. It's time for weird face `contortions`. That's right not a fight yet says it on the tablet. Humbaba makes his ropey wormy face even more hideous and Gilgamesh is like nope. Nope. Nope, nope. Nope. That's it. I'm out, dude Peace and Books it for the hills. but Enkidu stops him and Reminds him of the power of teamwork and how that's how a team works and also about the really sweet weapons. They'd forged Confidence returned again. They go back to fight the giant as the fight finally begins Shamash true to his word gets in on the action and `summons` the 13 winds to buffett the giant and keep him from moving then the heroes of legend kick around the much less mobile Humbaba for a bit until He admits defeat and offers to serve Gilgamesh. now Gilgamesh is about to take him up on this offer when we get a bunch of tablet fragments that just have Enkidu saying `grind up` kill `pulverize` over and over again or in some translations I kid you not he says pretty sure So while we don't know exactly what happens It appears that that persuasive argument won the day and Gilgamesh `promptly` lopped off Humbaba's head to take back as a `trophy` then they spent a lot of time `chopping down` a cedar from the forest of the gods and Talking about what a really sweet door. They were gonna make and with the thrilling home `renovation` portion of the tale over. Thus ends the story of Gilgamesh's quest for Humbaba One ogre dead one set of door materials obtained and the power of teamwork Once again proving to be the strongest power of them all. Ah Well, that and a god who can summon the thirteen winds to your aid That's right furry bro friendships the best Sure "bro" whatever you say *Music* 