https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gh9wiQKRSfU 

```  
courtesy    n. 礼貌，彬彬有礼；礼貌的行为（言语）；<古>屈膝礼
scold       v. 责骂，训斥
tempt       v. 引诱，诱惑；怂恿，利诱；冒……的风险
tempting    adj. 吸引人的；诱惑人的
apprehend   vt. 理解；逮捕；忧虑
arduous     adj. 努力的；费力的；险峻的
censure     v. 严厉斥责，正式谴责  
exert       v. 运用，施加（影响）；努力，尽力（exert oneself）
implication   n. 含义；暗示；牵连，卷入；可能的结果，影响
compelling   adj. 引人注目的；令人信服的；非常强烈的；不可抗拒的
hastily      adv. 匆忙地；急速地；慌忙地
entry        n. 进入，加入；出场，莅临；门，入口；进入权，进入许可；参赛；参赛作品，竞赛答题； 参赛人数，报名人数；登记，登录；（日记或计算机文件的）事项，（参考书的）条目，（账簿的）账目； 进入，加入；参赛人数，报名人数
insinuate   vt. 暗示；使逐渐而巧妙地取得；使迂回地潜入
clue        n. 线索，提示；理解，想法
disclaim    vt. 否认，拒绝；放弃，弃权；拒绝承认
affirm      v. 断言，证实； 宣称拥护，支持；认可（判决，协议），批准；不宣誓而提供正式证词；给予（某人）情感支持（或鼓励）  
deduct      v. 减去，扣除
pitch       n. 运动场地；程度；音高；推销行话；倾斜度；沥青；投球；街头摆摊处；颠簸；螺距
```


How to Avoid Misunderstanding: Use Abe Lincoln's Foolproof Strategy 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - 

One of the great dangers of communication is that people can misunderstand our intentions. We say one thing, we mean one thing, and people make something else of it. People make a completely different interpretation. They misinterpret our intention, and it can result in all sorts of trouble. In this video, I'm gonna teach you a method that Abraham Lincoln used repeatedly to great effect, to avoid misunderstanding. Hi everybody. I'm Bruce Lambert, from HowCommunicationWorks.com, a channel where I teach you communication skills, so you can improve your relationships, succeed at work, and have more confidence. Let's get started. Communication is difficult, and challenging, and one of the reasons it's difficult and challenging is that we can't always make ourselves perfectly understood. A lot of times we say something, and we intend to mean something, and the people who we're talking to appear to hear something different. They draw different `inferences` than the ones we want them to. They come to different conclusions than the one we want them to. And it can create all sorts of difficulties, when people do not understand our intended meaning. But, it's really difficult to avoid this, because the whole goal of communication is to convey to another person our intentions, our intended meaning. And the other person, the person listening, their goal is to understand the speaker's intentions. But, intentions are largely hidden, right? They're thoughts, and they're private. We can try to make them public, but we almost never make them completely explicit. We say a bunch of things to try to clarify our intentions, but mostly communication is `inferential`. I've talked about this in the blog a lot times, and I'll link to, or in the description I'll link to one of the blogs that talks about this `at length`, but communication, people have the wrong idea about it, and they think it's like understanding a code, decoding a coded message. But it's really much more like solving a mystery. And the idea is that the words a person speaks, as well as all the other information in the situation are like clues, and what we're trying to do is understand, `unravel`, the mystery of what their intentions are. So we're like Sherlock Holmes. We're looking at every clue in order to understand someone's intentions. And often there are very few cues. We have the words people said, and we also have their posture, gesture, facial expression, the circumstances, the context. What I know about what they know. What I know about they know I know. Our past history. All these things, the rate, volume, and `pitch` of their speech. All these things are clues to what they might mean, but in the end, I have to make inferences. I'm like Sherlock Holmes, putting all the clues together, and solving the mystery. But the problem is, the clues are often incomplete, and therefore we can come to the wrong conclusion. We can come to the wrong `deduction`, and misinterpret someone's meaning. So, Abraham Lincoln had a great strategy for avoiding this kind of misunderstanding, and it's simple to use, and we can all use it, and I have 10 examples of Abraham Lincoln using this strategy. And the strategy is simple. It's tell them what you don't mean. So he knew that ... Abraham Lincoln was almost always writing letters in his day, or telegrams, to the generals in the field, or writing letters to the public or to Congress, and he knew that the written word was without all the other `non-verbal` clues, like posture, gesture, facial expression, pitch, rate, volume, all that stuff, and he knew he was likely to be misinterpreted if he wasn't careful. And he was especially concerned about certain misinterpretations. Certain ways where it might be tempting to misunderstand him. And he wanted to avoid some particular misunderstandings that would be very damaging to his relationships. So the way that he solved this, was to tell people what he did not mean. He would explicitly say things like, I do not intend, do not misunderstand me, let there be no `misapprehension`. And I wanna give you examples of how he would do this, and by doing this, he would clarify his intention, especially by saying what he did not mean. If people were likely to come to some wrong conclusion, he would just go on the record and say, "Don't come to that conclusion. That's the wrong conclusion." So let's see a couple of examples. So, we'll refer to the screen now. I've got some PowerPoint slides to show you this. So the first one comes, he's on his way to Washington after he's been elected President, and he's giving a bunch of speeches, and he can't stop at every town to give a speech, or he'll never get to Washington, so he has to decline some offers. This is when he's declining an offer to give a speech. He says, "I wish you to understand that I mean no discourtesy to you by thus declining." I mean no discourtesy. So his `disclaim`, he says by my actions, don't interpret this as `discourtesy`. I intend `discourtesy` to no one. Okay, so he's clarifying his intentions explicitly. I wish you to understand that, though I am unwilling to go upon this platform, you are not at liberty to draw inferences concerning any other platform with which my name has been or is connected. So he says, "You're not at liberty to draw `inferences`." Lincoln knows that communication is inferential, and he's telling them, don't draw any inferences. Those are the wrong inferences. I am not allowing you to draw those inferences. Of course he can't actually stop people, but he can discourage them from drawing the wrong inferences. Here's another one. Says, "But in taking this step, the Government does not in the least reflect upon your efficiency or `patriotism`." Here he's writing to one of his generals, and he was often angry at his generals. Lincoln was very poorly served by many of his generals, and he often had to write them and criticize them, and they were very `egotistical`, these generals, and always getting their feelings hurt. So he would always have to be cautious about their feelings. So he says, "In taking this step, the Government does not in the least reflect upon your efficiency or patriotism. On the contrary, we have the fullest confidence in your ability to perform any duty required of you." So, he's `scolding` one of these generals, but he says, "Don't take this as a reflection on your efficiency or patriotism. On the contrary, what I really mean is we have the fullest confidence in your ability to perform any duty required of you." The next example. This is an example, he's sending to General Fremont, who was one of his most frustrating generals. He was a famous explorer of the West, and of the Grand Canyon, but a very bad general. And so he writes in this letter to Fremont, this letter is written in a spirit of caution, and not of `censure`. So, here he's explicitly saying what the meaning is supposed to be. I'm cautioning you, General Fremont, if you do this again, I'm going to fire you. And not of censure. I'm not censuring you. So to be censured is to be officially `scolded` and `reprimanded`. He says, "This is written in a spirit of caution, and not of `censure`." The next one. To the people of Maryland, he's writing. And he says I write this ... Oh no, he says, "To guard against misapprehension, it's proper to state that this `proclamation` does not apply to prisoners of war." So he knows it's possible that this message is gonna be misunderstood, or to use a fancy word, it's gonna be misapprehended. And so Lincoln says, "To guard against misapprehension, it is proper to state that this proclamation does not apply to prisoners of war." So he wants to make sure. He's made a proclamation, and it's probably beautifully written, because he was a beautiful writer, but he wants to make sure it's not misunderstood, so he says, "To guard against misapprehension, this doesn't apply to prisoners of war." The next one, he's writing to Buell, one of his other frustrating generals. And he was the President of the United States, so anything he said, as Commander in Chief, could be `construed` as an order. Anything coming from his mouth, could be construed as an official order, and he was concerned that some of the things he said as suggestions, or just as points of discussion, might be interpreted as orders by his generals, and he was eager to avoid that misunderstanding, so he would often say something like this. I do not intend this to be an order in any sense, but merely, as intimated before, to show you the grounds of my anxiety. So I do not intend. I searched for the phrase, I do not intend, and he says it multiple times in his collected papers. So here he says, he's writing another one of his generals, "If Banks reaches Martinsburg, is he any the better for it? Will not the enemy have cut him thence from Harper's Ferry? Have you sent anything to meet him and assist him at Martinsburg?" And the he finishes the letter. This is an `inquiry`, not an order. So, he's reminding the reader, what is the nature of this letter. Actually, what speech act is being performed. And he's saying, "This is an inquiry, not an order," so that he guards against the danger of it being misinterpreted. He says, "Have you sent anything to meet him at Martinsburg?" And he's afraid the general will hear that as an order, but he says, "This is an inquiry, not an order." Again, to Fremont, who just won't listen when Lincoln talks to him. He begins this letter in the most direct way, and you can use this exact phrase. He says to Fremont, "Now, do not misunderstand me. I do not say you have not done all you could. I presume you met unexpected difficulties, and beg you to believe that as surely as you have done your best, so have I." But the part that's critical, is the part in the beginning. Do not misunderstand me. I do not say you have not done all you could. He knew Fremont was an `egomaniac`, and was likely to feel criticized, and would start whining that Lincoln was criticizing, so he says, "Don't misunderstand me. I do not say you have not done all you could. I assume you've done all you could, and run into difficulty." Here's another one where he uses a similar, explicit phrase. I can't remember who this one's to, it's to another one of his generals. He says, "I am anxious that you shall not misunderstand me." So he uses this phrase over, and over, and over again. He's constantly aware of the risk of misunderstanding, and seeking to avoid it. I'm anxious that you not misunderstand me. Another phrase which we could use. It's a little formal, but it's great. In no case have I intended to censure you, or question your ability. See, over and over again, Lincoln's generals `whine` like little children, and their feelings are hurt very easily. Their egos are wounded very easily, so he's constantly having to guard against their egos being wounded. He says, "In no case have I intended to censure you." He's telling them what he does not mean. Or to question your ability. I'm not questioning your ability. In Colonel Haggard's case, I meant no more than to suggest that possibly you might have been mistaken in a point that could be corrected. And then he says, "I frequently make mistakes myself in the many things I am `compelled` to do `hastily`." Here he's writing to the Secretary of Navy. He uses this over and over again. These are 10 examples, I could find probably 10 more in his collected writings. "My dear sir, it is not intended to be `insinuated` that you have been `remiss` in the performance of your `arduous` and responsible duties." It is not intended to be insinuated. So he knows that there might be some `insinuation`, right? Some `implication`. Some indirect suggestion, that this officer had been remiss in his duties, but Lincoln is eager to say no, no, no, no, no, that's not what I mean. It is not intended to be insinuated that you've been remiss in the performance of your duties. I take pleasure in affirming ... Your department, which I take pleasure in affirming has, in your hands, been conducted with admirable success. So he tells them what he does mean. I really admire you. Finally here, I think this is one of the last couple ones I have. He says to Rosecrans, "Do not misunderstand." He uses that phrase again. You could use that in your own writing. Do not misunderstand. You can be writing a difficult email, or a difficult memo or letter, or you just be face to face with someone and say, "Please don't misunderstand me." And then you have to tell them what you didn't mean and what you did mean. I am not casting blame upon you. Almost all these letters to these `egomaniacal` generals are trying to relieve them of the feeling that they're being blamed. I am not casting blame upon you. I rather think by great `exertion` you can get to East Tennessee, etc., etc. And then he says again, "I make no order in the case. That I leave to General Halleck and yourself." And that's it. So I have those 10 examples of Lincoln saying what he does not mean. Communication is risky, and one of the risks is that people will not solve the mystery of our intentions correctly. We haven't given them enough clues. So one way we can help people understand us, understand our intentions, and help them avoid misunderstanding our intentions, is to tell them explicitly what we do not mean, especially if we're concerned that one particular meaning might be offensive to them, and might cause them hurt. We can tell them explicitly, that is not what we intended. And, I think it's a great strategy. I think, along with Mark Twain and William Shakespeare, I think Abraham Lincoln is the greatest communicator in the English language. We have so much to learn from him. I hope you enjoyed those lessons about telling people what you do not mean. If you like this kind of discussion of how communication works, I hope you will maybe give us this video a like, which we really appreciate. Push one of these buttons down here, and give us a like. Push the other button, and maybe subscribe to our channel if it interests you enough to watch some more of our videos, and then you'll get notifications when new videos come out. And also go over to HowCommunicationWorks.com, which is our website, and where the blog is, which has a lot of written blog `entries`, and summaries of some of these videos, and links to our one one one coaching offer, as well as an e-book about empathy, and a lot more other interesting stuff. I'd be grateful if you would sign up for our mailing list, so I could communicate with you directly over email. Thanks so much for watching. We'll see you next time. 