https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3zId15Q23M 
```  
spiritual   adj. 精神的，心灵的；宗教的；（人）高尚的，不为物欲所动的
assure      vt. 保证；担保；使确信；弄清楚
cripple     vt. （使）跛；（使）残废；削弱；严重毁坏（机器）；给……造成严重问题
irritate    v. 使不耐烦，激怒；刺激（身体某部位），使疼痛；使（生物体、细胞或器官）兴奋；引起不愉快
scorch      vt. 烧焦；使枯萎；挖苦
devastate   v. 毁坏，破坏；使极度震惊，使伤心欲绝
retreat     n. 撤退；休息寓所
superb      adj. 极佳的，质量极高的；（信心、控制力、技巧）非同一般的，超凡的；壮丽的，辉煌的；羽毛鲜艳夺目的（用于鸟名中，如羽毛鲜艳的琴鸟）
fascinate    v. 深深吸引，迷住；深深吸引，迷住；<旧>（尤指蛇）以眼神震慑（人，动物），使无法动弹
counterpart   n. 对应的人（或事物）；（法律文件的）副本  
haul        vt. （用力）拖，拉；费力前进；强迫（某人）接受申斥；（用卡车）运；（帆船）突然改变航道
accuse      v. 控告，指责
undertake    v. 承担，从事；承诺，答应；<英>在内侧行驶时赶上并超越（另一辆车）
meddle      v. 干涉，管闲事，干预他人之事；瞎搞，乱弄  
flout       v. 藐视，无视（规则、法律等）；嘲笑，愚弄
clash       n. 冲突，交战；争论，争执；交锋，比赛；分歧，差异；（金属的）撞击声；（时间上的）冲突，撞期；（颜色、图案等的）不相配
furious     adj. 狂怒的，暴怒的；狂暴的，猛烈的；喧闹的，热烈兴奋的  
utter       adj. 完全的，彻底的  v. 说，讲；发出（声音）；使用（伪钞）；发射
impoverish  vt. 使贫穷；使枯竭
manoeuvre    n. 熟练（谨慎）的动作；军事演习；策略，花招；欺诈性操作
bounce      v. 弹起，反弹；跳动，蹦；（使）上下晃动；（用膝盖）颠动（孩子）；蹦蹦跳跳地去；拒付，退回（支票等）；退回（电子邮件）；驱逐，解雇；（向某人）透露主意（以试探其反应）；反复跳槽，来回往返某地；（光线或声音）反射；撞击，碰撞
blow        v. （风）刮，吹；
steadfast   adj. 坚定的；不变的
contingent   n. （军队的）分遣队；代表团  
morale      n. 士气，精神面貌
weary       adj. 疲倦的；厌烦的；令人厌烦的  
emperor     n. 皇帝；（北美的）丽蝶，皇蝶  
illicit     adj. 非法的，社会不容许的
dilemma     n. （进退两难的）窘境，困境；二难推理，两刀论法
humiliate   v. 羞辱，使蒙羞
ruinous     adj. 破坏性的，毁灭性的；导致破产的，耗资巨大的；<正式>破败不堪的，损毁严重的
dawn        v. 变得明朗，开始清楚；破晓，开始    
decisive    adj. 果断的，决断的；决定性的，关键的；确定的，明确的
wagon       n. 货车，四轮马车  
encircle    vt. 包围；围绕；环绕 
```
Napoleon's Invasion of Russia 1812 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Russia, 1812. Napoleon invades his former ally with the largest army Europe has ever seen. But for the French Emperor, the decisive blow remains `frustratingly` beyond reach. Russia’s resilience is unlike anything he’s ever encountered. And as winter closes in, his army begins the most infamous `retreat` in history. In 1807, following his defeat of the Russian army at Friedland, Napoleon had travelled to Tilsit to meet the Russian Emperor, Alexander. During their celebrated encounter, the two emperors formed a friendship, and made an alliance. But it was not to last… Over the next five years, relations between France and Russia cooled dramatically. The Russians were `irritated` by Napoleon’s creation of a ‘Duchy of Warsaw’ in Poland, which they regarded as `meddling` in their own front yard. They feared it would lead to the return of a fully-fledged Polish state – a traditional `thorn` in Russia’s side. Then there was Napoleon’s offer to marry Alexander’s sister, Grand Duchess Anna Pavlovna, to `cement` their alliance. But the Romanovs hated the idea, and after a year of Russian `prevarication`, Napoleon married Marie Louise, daughter of the Austrian Emperor, instead. Later that year, Napoleon broke a guarantee made at Tilsit, and `annexed` the Duchy of Oldenburg, ruled by Alexander’s sister’s father-in-law. Worst of all, was the fallout over ‘the Continental System’, Napoleon’s not very effective economic `blockade` against Britain, designed to `cripple` his most `steadfast` enemy. Alexander had agreed to join the Continental System at Tilsit, but it was hugely unpopular in Russia, and `ruinous` to her finances during a period of economic crisis. When Napoleon found out that Russia was `flouting` the rules of the System, and had resumed an illicit trade with Britain, he was `furious`. With both emperors `accusing` the other of bad faith, their two countries began preparing for war. 

This video is brought to you by our sponsor CuriosityStream – home of more than two and half-thousand documentaries exploring science, technology, the natural world, history, and more. In fact there are so many `fascinating` topics to choose from, sometimes you just have to dive in... If you’re a little worried about humanity’s future right now, would it be reassuring to know that life can `bounce back` from a major extinction event? That’s what happened 250 million years ago following the Permian Extinction, which we learned this month watching the excellent ’Breakthrough: Recovering from Extinction’ on CuriosityStream. There are many other high-end documentaries like this waiting to inform and entertain you on Curiosity Stream, which is available worldwide, and an online subscription starts from just two-dollars-ninety nine a month. Remember to use the promo code ‘EpicHistoryTV’ at sign-up to get your first 30 days free. Thanks to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this video. 

Napoleon knew an invasion of Russia was a massive `undertaking` – especially as he still had an unfinished war in Spain, that was tying down more than 200,000 troops. Nevertheless in 1811 he began to assemble the largest army Europe had ever seen… Around 600,000 men… though less than half of them were French. The rest came from allied states across Europe. There was a Polish corps from the Dutchy of Warsaw, led by Prince Poniatowksi, a `corps` from each of the German Kingdoms of Saxony, Westphalia and Bavaria, from the Kingdom of Italy, as well as Swiss, Dutch, Croat, Spanish and Portuguese units scattered throughout the army. There were even `contingents` from Prussia and Austria – France’s recent enemies, now uneasy allies. Some of these allied troops, such as the Poles and Germans, were as reliable as their French `counterparts`. Others were very inexperienced, or like the Prussians and Austrians – `reluctant` to be there at all. This `gigantic` formation was deployed in three armies, the main force under Napoleon himself, another led by his stepson Eugène, Viceroy of Italy, and a third led by his younger brother Jérôme, King of Westphalia. Neither of these two were experienced commanders, though one would distinguish himself on campaign… the other would not. On their left flank Marshal Macdonald led Tenth Corps, with a large Prussian contingent… While the right flank was guarded by General Schwarzenberg’s Austrian Corps. Another 100,000 troops were in reserve, including Marshal Victor’s Ninth Corps. Initially the Russians only had 220,000 men to face this `juggernaut`, organised into Barclay de Tolly’s First Army; Prince Bagration’s Second Army; and General Tormasov’s Third Army. They would be outnumbered two-to-one. But in the run-up to war, Russia scored two crucial diplomatic triumphs: Sweden had been at war with Russia just three years earlier, a conflict which cost her Finland. By a curious turn of events, Sweden was now ruled by Napoleon’s ex-`marshal`, Bernadotte. But after Napoleon occupied Swedish Pomerania without warning, a furious Bernadotte promised Russia that Sweden would remain neutral. Meanwhile a peace treaty with the Ottoman Empire ended Russia’s six-year war against its southern rival. These two agreements secured Russia’s `flanks` from any strategic threat, and freed up troops to face Napoleon’s invasion. On 24th June 1812, French troops began crossing the Niemen River into Russian territory. The army was so large, the crossing took five days. Napoleon’s plan was to attack north of the `impassable` Pripet Marshes, and defeat Barclay’s army, while Jérôme pinned Bagration in place. French forces would then swing south to trap Bagration. Napoleon expected the campaign to be over in five weeks. But the `sheer` size of the French army convinced the cautious Barclay that retreat was his only option. Prince Bagration, a much more aggressive commander by instinct, and often Barclay’s fierce critic, was forced to agree. As they withdrew they burned villages and crops - part of a `scorched` earth strategy to deny supplies to the enemy. In four days Napoleon had reached Vilnius, but Barclay was gone. To the south, Jérôme failed to pin down Bagration, so when Davout’s First Corps swung southeast to trap him, he’d already withdrawn to safety. Napoleon’s younger brother was out of his depth. Stung by the Emperor’s criticism, humiliated when his troops were put under Marshal Davout’s command, he resigned his post and returned to Westphalia. The campaign was already beginning to expose serious flaws in Napoleon’s plan. Knowing his troops would struggle to live off the land in this `impoverished` region, he’d organised huge supply depots and transport units to feed the army. But wagons rolled slowly along Russia’s bad roads, which were turned to rivers of mud by summer thunderstorms. The army had to make frequent stops to allow its supplies to catch up – bad news for Napoleon’s plan to catch the Russians, but a much-needed relief for the many thousands of young `conscripts` in his army, not used to hard marches day after day. Many were soon dropping out with exhaustion; others deserted. There were also huge problems of command and control, over a vast, multi-national army that was three times bigger than any Napoleon had commanded before. La Grande Armée, once famed for its speed of `manoeuvre`, had become a `lumbering` `beast`. After a pause to rest and regroup at Vilnius, Napoleon resumed his advance. Barclay continued his retreat to Vitebsk, where he hoped Bagration’s Second Army would be able to join him. But Davout blocked Bagration’s path at Saltanovka, forcing him to make for Smolensk instead. At Vitebsk, Napoleon clashed with Barclay’s rearguard, but once more the Russians escaped, after setting fire to all the stores they couldn’t take with them. Meanwhile, 300 miles away, on Napoleon’s southern `flank`, Russian Third Army attacked and defeated the Saxon Seventh Corps, forcing Napoleon to divert Schwarzenberg’s Austrian corps to their aid. By the end of July, Napoleon had advanced 250 miles into Russia – much further than he’d planned. And the long marches in extreme, summer heat continued to take a heavy toll on his men. Without fighting a major battle, the army had already suffered 20% casualties - from exhaustion and illness, particularly `typhus` and `dysentery`. The army had entered Russia with quarter of a million horses, but they were now dying at a rate of a thousand every day, from exhaustion and lack of fodder. It wasn’t just cavalry horses that were dying, but the very horses that were supposed to `haul` the army’s transport wagons, making a bad situation worse. This crisis in horsepower came just as the French light `cavalry`, Napoleon’s eyes and ears, met their match… in Russia’s Cossacks. Cossacks – self-reliant, proud, ruthless, and `superb` horseman - didn’t play by the same rules as other European cavalry. Every day they shadowed Napoleon’s army, swooping in whenever they saw an easy target, but `melting away` into the forests if they were attacked by a stronger force. Cossacks, as well as Russian partisans, made hit and run attacks on French supply lines and `depots`, forcing Napoleon to divert thousands of troops to their defence. Alongside Russian regular light cavalry, they also prevented French `patrols` from carrying out `reconnaissance`, which meant that Napoleon often lacked good information about roads, or the enemy’s whereabouts. Napoleon stayed 16 days at Vitebsk, resting his troops and considering his options. Among his many mounting concerns was the security of his long, exposed flanks. But at Vitebsk he received news that Schwarzenberg had defeated the Russians at Gorodeczna… A week later at Polotsk, a French-Bavarian force fought Wittgenstein’s Russian First Corps to a standstill. Napoleon’s flanks were secure, for now. Although his main force had been reduced to less than half its original strength, Napoleon decided to push on to Smolensk, and try to force the Russians into a decisive battle for the city. Barclay was indeed under pressure to give battle, from fellow commander Prince Bagration and Emperor Alexander in St.Petersburg: the army’s morale and Russia’s honour required it, they told him. With the First and Second Russian Armies finally linking up near Smolensk, Barclay decided to attack Napoleon’s army, which he believed was concentrated around Rudnya. The offensive was led by General Platov’s Cossacks, who surprised a French cavalry division at Inkovo. But alarmed by false reports that Eugène’s Fourth Corps was outflanking him to the north, Barclay called off the attack. Napoleon, `reassured` that Barclay’s offensive posed no real threat, began a grand outflanking move to the south, to take Smolensk and cut off the Russian retreat. The so-called ‘Smolensk Manoeuvre’ was Napoleon at his best. Using Murat’s cavalry to screen his movements and keep Barclay in the dark, the Emperor reached the Dnieper on the evening of 13th August. His engineers quickly threw up four `pontoon` bridges, and `by dawn the next day`, his army was across. Marshal Davout led a second column across the river at Orsha. But a single Russian division, the 27th, fought a heroic fighting retreat from Krasny, delaying the French advance… and buying time for Bagration to reinforce the Smolensk garrison. The chance for a surprise assault on the city was lost. And as the Russian army began to pull back, Napoleon displayed an uncharacteristic lack of `urgency`, even halting the army for a parade to mark his 43rd birthday. When the main attack on Smolensk began two days later, Napoleon opted for a frontal assault. 150 French guns battered the city, as three French corps attacked its medieval fortifications. The Russians resisted bravely. But Barclay, fearing `encirclement`, ordered another retreat. With Smolensk in flames, the Russians began to pull out… just as the French fought their way into the city, to scenes of utter `devastation`. Bagration’s Second Army withdrew first… As Barclay’s army followed, its rearguard was caught by Ney’s Third Corps at Valutino… General Junot, commanding the Westphalian Eighth Corps, had orders to cut off Barclay’s retreat - but having crossed the river, he did nothing, and the opportunity was lost. A `furious` Napoleon swore that Junot would never now win his Marshal’s `baton`. The Battle of Smolensk cost both sides around 10,000 casualties, and destroyed one of Russia’s most historic and holy cities – but settled nothing. After the missed chance to defeat the Russians at Smolensk, Napoleon paused once more to consider his options. His men were `weary` and far from home, and it was already late in the campaigning season. He considered sitting out the Russian winter at Smolensk, and resuming the campaign in 1813. But now he was just 230 miles from Moscow. A century earlier, Peter the Great had moved Russia’s capital to St.Petersburg, but Moscow remained its historic and `spiritual heart` – a prize for which the Russians had to fight. Napoleon, always a gambler, decided to push on. The Russians faced their own `dilemma`. Emperor Alexander had experienced a kind of religious `epiphany` that summer, and rallied the Russian people to the country’s defence, describing the war with Napoleon as a war to save Holy Mother Russia from the Antichrist. For months the Emperor had received conflicting advice – to stand and fight, or retreat. Now he decided change was needed. The `cautious` General Barclay kept his job, but the Emperor summoned General Mikhail Kutuzov to take overall command of Russia’s armies. Kutuzov had been beaten by Napoleon at Austerlitz seven years before, but he’d since won several victories against the Ottoman Empire, and was a ‘true Russian’, loved by the troops. Although Kutuzov agreed with Barclay’s strategy of delay, he saw that constant retreats were destroying the soldiers’ and the nation’s morale. If Moscow was given up without a battle, the fallout could be disastrous. And so, 70 miles west of the city, near the village of Borodino, the Russian army prepared to make a stand. Europe was about to witness the bloodiest day’s fighting of the Napoleonic Wars. Thank you to all our Patreon supporters for making this series possible. Visit our Patreon page to find out how you too can support the channel, get exclusive updates, ad-free early access and help us to choose future topics. And did you know we have a new range of Napoleon-themed merch for sale – click the merch shelf below or follow the links to find out more. 

