https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsMWbVrjucg

Why do we, like, hesitate when we, um, speak? - Lorenzo García-Amaya

```  
gauge       n. 计量器；标准尺寸；容量规格；针织物的细度
distract    v. 使分心，使转移注意力；<古>使困惑，使迷
discourse   n. 演讲，论述；谈话，交流；话语，语篇  
stigma      n. 耻辱，污名；（植物花朵的）柱头；<医>（病的）外在特征（或特点）；（皮肤上的）斑点，小斑；（基督教传统中的）圣痕 （stigmata）
renowned    adj. 有名望的，著名的
elaborate   adj. 复杂的，详尽的；精心制作的
mastery     n. 精通，熟练掌握；控制，驾驭
instruct    v. 指示，吩咐；教授，指导；聘请（律师），托办；通知；（法官向陪审团）建议，作说明 
```

For as long as we’ve had language, some people have tried to control it. And some of the most frequent targets of this communication regulation are the ums, ers, and likes that `pepper` our conversations. Ancient Greek and Latin texts warned against speaking with hesitation, modern schools have tried to ban the offending terms, and `renowned` linguist Noam Chomsky `dismissed` these expressions as “errors” irrelevant to language. Historically, these speech components had been `lumped` into the broader bucket of “disfluencies”— linguistic fillers which `distract` from useful speech. However, none of this controversy has made these so-called disfluencies less common. They continue to occur `roughly` 2 to 3 times per minute in natural speech. And different versions of them can be found in almost every language, including sign language. So are ums and uhs just a habit we can’t break? Or is there more to them than meets the ear? To answer this question, it helps to compare these speech components to other words we use in everyday life. While a written word might have multiple definitions, we can usually determine its intended meaning through context. In speech however, a word can take on additional layers of meaning. Tone of voice, the relationship between speakers, and expectations of where a conversation will go can `imbue` even words that seem like filler with vital information. This is where “um” and “uh” come in. Or “eh” and “ehm,” “tutoa” and “öö,” “eto” and “ano.” Linguists call these `filled pauses`, which are a kind of hesitation phenomenon. And these seemingly insignificant interruptions are actually quite meaningful in spoken communication. For example, while a silent pause might be interpreted as a sign for others to start speaking, a filled pause can signal that you’re not finished yet. Hesitation phenomena can buy time for your speech to catch up with your thoughts, or to fish out the right word for a situation. And they don’t just benefit the speaker— a filled pause lets your listeners know an important word is on the way. Linguists have even found that people are more likely to remember a word if it comes after a hesitation. Hesitation phenomena aren’t the only parts of speech that take on new meaning during dialogue. Words and phrases such as “like,” “well” or “you know” function as `discourse` markers, ignoring their literal meaning to convey something about the sentence in which they appear. Discourse markers direct the flow of conversation, and some studies suggest that `conscientious` speakers use more of these phrases to ensure everyone is being heard and understood. For example, starting a sentence with “Look...” can indicate your attitude and help you `gauge` the listener’s agreement. “I mean” can signal that you’re about to `elaborate` on something. And the `dreaded` “like” can perform many functions, such as establishing a loose connection between thoughts, or introducing someone else's words or actions. These markers give people a real-time view into your thought process and help listeners follow, interpret, and predict what you’re trying to say. Discourse markers and hesitation phenomena aren’t just useful for understanding language— they help us learn it too. In 2011, a study showed `toddlers` common and uncommon objects alongside a recording referring to one of the items. When a later recording asked them to identify the uncommon object, toddlers performed better if that `instruction` contained a filled pause. This may mean that filled pauses cue toddlers to expect novel words, and help them connect new words to new objects. For adolescents and adults learning a second language, filled pauses smooth out awkward early conversations. And once they’re more confident, the second-language learner can signal their newfound fluency by using the appropriate hesitation phenomenon. Because, contrary to popular belief, the use of filled pauses doesn't decrease with `mastery` of a language. Just because hesitation phenomena and discourse markers are a natural part of communication doesn’t mean they’re always appropriate. Outside of writing dialogue, they serve no purpose in most formal writing. And in some contexts, the `stigma` these social cues carry can work against the speaker. But in most conversations, these seemingly senseless sounds can convey a world of meaning. 