https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qip7FhKTmlM 
5:48

```
gabble    v. 急促而含混不清地说
tease      
profession    
```

Update: The house that rewboss built 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Oh, sorry — I didn't see you there. Yes, hello, it's been a long time, thank you for all your messages of concern. I'm absolutely fine: nothing bad has happened at all. The truth of the matter is, I've simply been very busy. If you remember a few months ago, I was teasing you about this up-and-coming announcement, this project that I was doing. I did warn you that it was going to take some time, and I might not be able to make videos as regularly as I'd like to; but I really wasn't prepared for just how much it would be, and how little time I would have for everything. Actually, it would have been perfectly manageable, except for the fact that I had a glut of actual paying work coming in, which I had to do as well, which really just made me incredibly busy. If you remember, I talked about a film I made that was shown in a local cinema. And... this is the DVD version! This is the actual DVD version, with lots of extras on it, of a film that was shown in a local cinema! Yeah! So, I was busy making that DVD, and I was hoping to be able to sell it, maybe open a little online shop or something, but apart from the fact that I've had very little time to do it, I've also run into some other issues that I won't go into. But on the back of the success of that video, I was commissioned to make another video, which was the filming of a musical production, which was a real challenge. This is actually the libretto. Whatever. And this was the programme. It was an interesting experience. It was performed in the open air, we were extremely lucky with the weather. It was written by somebody who had never written a full-length musical before. It was performed mostly by amateurs, meaning people who were in local choirs, church choirs, that sort of thing. There were a couple of professionals — a few of the soloists were professionals — but most of the people had never done anything quite like it before, it was a great success with the audience, it was a great success with the critics who turned up. They actually had newspaper critics, and they gave it very good reviews, although probably they were being kind of account of the fact it was really an amateur production. But it was a great success. And I got to film it, and I put together a film version of it, which is going to go on a DVD with some bonus extras and things, and I've got some more work to do on that. If all goes well, it should be available soon, but I can't say exactly where it will be available, or how it will be available. It's not something that's going to go onto the International Movie Database or anything. That would be too much: it's a local thing, really. OK, I'm starting to `gabble` now. Let's get back to the big news, the stuff I've been saving up for you, and the main reason I haven't been on YouTube recently. Yeah, we're building a house. Which is to say that the house is now standing: these images were taken earlier this year, in the spring. It's a prefab house; and you'd think that means it goes up in a few weeks and you move in, but it's not quite like that, and there's an awful lot of other work to be done on it as well. That work is now entering the final phase, and... hopefully we're going to move in perhaps November. Hopefully we'll have finished the move by about the middle of November. And I'm looking forward to living there. I'm not looking forward to the move itself, because that's going to be an awful lot of work and very complicated to do, especially since we've got two cats. We're not moving far, only a few miles back to the top of the valley, which is where I lived when I first started on YouTube. We're actually moving back out to that little village. And, yeah, it should be interesting. It's going to be a much nicer house, obviously, because we built it. Apart from anything else, one thing I'm really looking forward to is the fact that I'll be able to set up a studio, that I can film in, and get some decent lighting so I can do more interesting stuff. Until then, I've got a lot of work to do, and that means not a lot of time to plan and make YouTube videos. So please don't worry if I suddenly disappear again. I'll try to keep you updated as much as I can. Wish me luck! 