https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jk0omMiuYd4
4:50

```  
impulsive    adj. 冲动的；脉冲的
momentary    adj. 片刻的，短暂的；随时会发生的
escalate     v. （使）变得严重，（使）升级；迅速增加，迅速增长；逐步增强，逐步升高
prime        adj. 主要的，首要的；优质的，第一流的；最可能的，最适合的；最理想的，最典型的；最初的，原始的；素（或质）数的（如2，3，5，7，11）；互为素或质数的
dilate       vi. 扩大；膨胀；详述
freak        n. 怪人，怪事；畸形人；反复无常
striking     adj. 惊人的，异常的；妩媚动人的，标致的；罢工的；打击的
involuntary  adj. 无意识的；自然而然的；不知不觉的
gobble       vi. 贪食；咯咯叫
```

What is FEAR and why do YOU feel Scared__en-GB

We have all been there. We are having a lovely time watching the clouds go by, making shapes out of them. look that one looks like Pikachu……. when yes all of a sudden, a freaky `nun` demon jumps out at you. Sorry if that scared you. We all get afraid and feel fear, maybe not like that example but at different times. Seeing a spider, a loud noise or a `creak` on a floorboard late at night can strike fear suddenly right through our bodies. But what is this feeling of fear, where does it come from and why do we even have it? Main The feeling of fear can make your heart race, breath quicken, scream, sweat, `pupils` `dilate`, freeze you in place and can even cause `involuntary` urination. These are all stress reactions caused by our limbic system, a chain reaction in areas of the brain that work together to control our built in ‘fight or flight’ response. We have this built into us to help us react and survive to threats. Imagine prehistoric primitive you being confronted by a predator, say the extinct flesh eating giant `pickle-a-saurus`. You would see this, and your brain would say, look that wants to eat you, get away from it now to survive. Without feeling fear, you might say ‘Hey Pickle-a-saurus, what is for lunch’ and it would reply ‘you’ and gobble you up. If not for fear we would most likely not have survived as a species. Let’s have a look how the brain has `compartments` that communicate to react to a threat. There are two simultaneous processes going on which decide how we react. The Low Road is `instinctual` and impulsive, react now ask questions later. When a perceived threat happens, whether it is unexpected sound, motion or any other sense the brains says ‘danger’ engage fight or flight response now. The `Sensory` stimulus is sent into the `Thalamus`, the area of the brain in charge of receiving initial sensory signals and relaying them to the next destination. As the thalamus does not know whether this is real danger, but there is a possibility, it shoots the signal straight to the `Amygdala` which is the brains alarm system. The Amygdala sends a danger signal to the `hypothalamus`, also referred to as the ‘Lizard brain’, which is responsible for synthesizing and secreting hormones. It reacts and sends out neurochemicals and hormones including adrenaline into the body, increasing things like breathing and heart rate, dilating pupils to maximise further visual information input and pumping more blood into our muscles so we are `primed` to run or fight. The High Road takes a slightly longer route, considering the scenario before deciding what action to take. The original stimuli is again sent to the thalamus, but instead of escalating this to the `Amygdala` it is sent through to the sensory cortex, which processes and determines meaning from the stimuli. What exactly did you see, hear, taste, smell or feel. It sends the gathered information onto the Hippocampus, which stores memory for more context and asks whether it has experienced this before, what did it mean that time and what was the outcome. It also considers other factors that might help hive it context. Is that noise my cat in the other room, did I leave the TV on, etc. The Hippocampus takes a measured approach and tells the fired up Amygdala whether to shut down and stop sending signals to the hypothalamus or to continue with the fight or flight reaction engaged by the low road. This is why we feel a momentary rush of terror before calming down in a situation we evaluate to not be dangerous after all. Lots of people actually seek out fear, enjoying being and feeling scared. Watching horror films, playing scary games or even going on a roller-coaster. When our fight or flight response is triggered, we release chemicals which are similar to that of when we are excited or happy. When we trigger this in what we perceive as a safe environment it is thought that we can then enjoy being scared and the chemicals running around our body that are `akin` to high arousal states. What was the last thing that made you scared or jump? And do you like being scared or do you hate it? Let us know below. 