https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=95pg0T7cDHs

Centropolis - David Von Drehle 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en (light piano music) -

Welcome to Centropolis, a librarian's dream date with authors, character, and ideas in the drama of the city line:0% on the edge of the plains and the center of the country. line:0% I'm your host, Crosby Kemper, line:0% director of the Kansas City Public Library. With us today is David Von Drehle, editor-at-large for the Time Magazine based in a small frontier outpost of Mission Hills. He's the author of a number of books, align:start size:94% position:6% notably Triangle: The Fire That Changed America, align:start size:84% position:16% and Rise To Greatness: Abraham Lincoln align:start size:81% position:19% and America's Most Perilous Year. David, thank you for being here. - It's my pleasure. align:start size:94% position:6% - You've been a journalist for the Denver Post, align:start size:84% position:16% the Miami Herald, the Washington Post, align:start size:88% position:13% and you've been covering politics since 1992. That's a lot of Clintons. align:start size:88% position:13% (laughs) - Yes, it certainly is. align:start position:0% - Let's talk about the differences and the similarities of 1992 and the 2016 election. We've got Clintons in both elections. But Bill Clinton in 1992 is a very different character than Hillary Clinton. align:start size:97% position:3% He's moving to the right and she's moving to the left, at least the general election. align:start size:84% position:16% She may be changing a little bit, align:start size:81% position:19% but she's been moving to the left through the convention, anyway. Talk a little bit about the new Democrats in 1992 and what Hillary and Bernie have been about in 2016. align:start size:97% position:3% - Well, in 1992 the Democratic party was in a shambles, sort of like you might say of the Republican party right now. align:start size:84% position:16% They had had one president elected in, align:start size:97% position:3% I'd have to do my math quickly, but about 30 years. align:start size:81% position:19% And that was Jimmy Carter in 1976. align:start size:97% position:3% He would only have happened in the Watergate-- - He sort of rang the rite of Gerry Ford. align:start size:97% position:3% - Exactly, kind of an accidental president almost. align:start size:94% position:6% But otherwise it had been not just Republicans align:start size:94% position:6% but landslide Republicans, in '72, '84, '88, all big results. And along came Bill Clinton, align:start size:88% position:13% who was a southern governor from Arkansas, align:start position:0% had been seen for years a bright young comer in the party, but very much the standard bearer of a new king of Democrat. align:start size:84% position:16% They called themselves New Democrats. align:start size:88% position:13% They ran more against the old Democratic party of the left, of the Kennedys, align:start size:81% position:19% especially Ted Kennedy, McGovern. That was almost a bigger project align:start size:84% position:16% than running against the Republicans. align:start size:88% position:13% So there was an excitement around that, a sense of something new. align:start size:97% position:3% But it was also a zany, unpredictable, weird campaign. align:start size:94% position:6% - We had the Donald Trump before Donald Trump. We had Ross Perot. - Exactly, Ross Perot, our first billionaire, self-funded, crazy talking candiadte. - Yeah, he really spent some of his own money-- - He spent a lot of his own money, unlike Trump. align:start position:0% - And my memory is he would buy half-hour, hour TV segments and give long discurses. - He bought one big long ad on the eve of the election. align:start position:0% His big forum, and this is kind of like Trump before Trump. align:start size:97% position:3% Trump has mastered Twitter and Facebook and social media. align:start size:97% position:3% It was Perot who mastered the 24-hour news phenomenon. He could get on the Larry King Live show at will. align:start size:84% position:16% He'd call up Larry, go on the show, and do another segment. He was great TV, you didn't know what was gonna come out of his mouth. align:start size:97% position:3% But you can overdo the comparison to Trump, as well. align:start size:97% position:3% Perot was not sophisticated on the issues, align:start size:84% position:16% but he was educated on the issues align:start size:97% position:3% and he knew what he thought and why he thought it. align:start size:88% position:13% - And he was taking positions on the issues that were discursive, had some logic to them. You could disagree with him about NAFTA, though, align:start size:97% position:3% though it is interesting that NAFTA's an issue again. - It's amazing to me. align:start size:88% position:13% - The trade policy is one of the basic issues. align:start size:94% position:6% But there is a difference in the technology align:start size:94% position:6% and also in the importance of the parties. I mean, Donald Trump's campaign is basically 140 characters. It's the Tweetocracy. align:start size:84% position:16% And those are characters, not words, align:start size:84% position:16% so actual number of words is pretty small. Sad, as he might say. align:start size:97% position:3% So the technology obviously makes a difference. George Bush, first President Bush, wasn't that great on TV. Bill Clinton's very warm on TV. Ross Perot had something to say. - Right. We're in a new age, and Donald Trump is the avatar of that age, there's no question about it. align:start size:84% position:16% And it's what I called in Time Magazine a disintermediated time. The middleman of politics has been cut out by Trump, align:start size:84% position:16% whether it's the media or the parties align:start size:94% position:6% or any of the go-betweens, the endorsers. All those that used to be big factors have been eliminated by Trump. He's gone directly to his audience, which he's built up over decades align:start size:81% position:19% promoting himself, his own brand. And he's a master of new media. Whether it's social media, whether it's reality television, these are his milieu. He understands them much better than anyone else in politics right now. align:start size:97% position:3% I'm not sure it's gonna get him to the White House. align:start size:97% position:3% It's gonna get him much closer than we ever imagined. And somebody who's smoother and better, but using those same techniques, is gonna come along after-- - Right, who actually knows something about the issues and the structure of politics once you're into a national campaign. The disintermediation is interesting to me, and let's talk a little bit about that broadly. I sort of feel that we always have a virtual guest here, align:start position:0% which is Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America. In the 1830s and '40s when he wrote Democracy in America, he talked about America being a place full of mediation, the mediation of newspapers, align:start size:94% position:6% associations, all kinds of associations, religion. And all that sort of disappeared today. And newspapers, of which you are a leading exponent, are not quite gone yet, but the importance of the newspaper, the importance of Time Magazine, which everybody read when I was growing up, and I don't know how big the readership is today... align:start position:0% Talk about that and the importance of that in politics. Again, the difference between 1992 and today. align:start position:0% - We were just seeing the glimmers of this change in '92. We were starting to talk about what the impact of this new technological digital age was going to be. Nobody had quite figured it out. align:start size:97% position:3% It was, I think for me, about four or five years later, the first time I went on Craigslist and saw that there were better classified ads and they were free. I said uh-oh, this is trouble. But in a way that fascinates me, align:start size:84% position:16% what we're really experiencing right now is almost a return to the de Tocqueville age, and the 70 years or so after that or the century after that, when it was... align:start size:97% position:3% Pretty inexpensive to start up your own newspaper, just as it's pretty inexpensive align:start size:97% position:3% to start up your own website or news site today. Compared to the monopoly era that you and I grew up in, when there was maybe one or two newspapers in a town, a handful of television options. align:start size:97% position:3% Now, there's just an explosion and it's infinite. align:start size:94% position:6% And just as that has driven us into our niches, align:start size:97% position:3% broken up our big community into small communities of interest and of belief, align:start size:97% position:3% the same sort of thing happened in the 19th century. There would be 30 or 40 newspapers align:start size:84% position:16% going at any given time in New York City. align:start size:97% position:3% There was a newspaper targeted for every individual niche. And readers had to be more proactive, align:start size:88% position:13% they had to be more educated to understand, okay, where is this news organization coming from? How do I screen that? How do I correct for that as I sort of educate myself on what's going on? align:start size:97% position:3% - In Triangle, which is about the Triangle Fire in 1911 and the consequences of that... align:start position:0% But the importance of newspapers then was very great. align:start size:88% position:13% But you're right, there were lots of niches that Pulitzer, World, and the Hearst paper... align:start size:84% position:16% And you have the Jewish Daily Forward, align:start size:84% position:16% you've got the socialist newspapers. You've got, as you said, something for every niche. align:start size:84% position:16% On the other hand, the parties represented align:start size:81% position:19% some things at the national level, align:start size:81% position:19% in which you could identify with. So you were identifying with certain policies and whatnot. align:start size:84% position:16% And today, the party structure itself seems to have fallen apart. - Completely apart. We've seen that in this year. It's been happening for decades, the decline of the parties, align:start size:84% position:16% but never more obvious than this year and never more obvious than in the Republican party. For a while we were talking about what Trump has done align:start size:84% position:16% as a hostile takeover of the GOP. I've discovered an even better business metaphor, align:start size:84% position:16% which is what's called a reverse merger, align:start size:88% position:13% where a kind of `moribund` public company is taken over by a private company as a way of circumventing the rules around going public. The GOP, this great party of Lincoln and of Roosevelt and of Reagan, really is not sure what it believes in right now. align:start size:88% position:13% And in that vacuum, this personality, Trump, align:start size:88% position:13% has swept in and seized their nomination align:start size:88% position:13% even though he does not believe in anything that those three stood for, most importantly being conservatism, align:start size:84% position:16% the idea of a conservative party. Nominating Donald Trump for president is a radical thing to do. It's not conservative at all. align:start size:97% position:3% - Yeah, it seems to be based entirely on resentment. align:start size:94% position:6% It's what my old professor at Yale, Harold Bloom, used to say about the French critics and their pekingese in America, the School of Resentment. And Donald Trump is purely, it's insults, align:start size:97% position:3% it's these two-word descriptions of Marco Rubio or any of his opponents. align:start size:97% position:3% Isn't there a decline in the intelligence of politics? - Well, who was it? One of the great politicians align:start size:94% position:6% said you could never fail by underestimating-- align:start size:84% position:16% - P.T. Barnum, supposedly, said that. align:start size:84% position:16% - And it was once said of another guy, he always aimed just below the public taste and he always hit it. align:start size:97% position:3% So there's some of that going on and always has been. I think that for me, as a representative of an elite publication, you ask about our readership. In ways, it's bigger than it's ever been thanks to the internet and its global reach. align:start size:88% position:13% But I caution myself against getting too smug about the Trump phenomenon, align:start size:97% position:3% because I think at its heart there are resentments about the failures of a sort of self-selected, align:start size:88% position:13% self-appointed, self-perpetuating elite align:start position:0% which has not won the confidence of the American people align:start size:88% position:13% in the way they-slash-we have governed over the past generation. align:start size:97% position:3% And people are tired of being talked down to by us. And one of the things align:start size:94% position:6% I think really invigorates Trump's supporters is the idea that he is not afraid align:start size:94% position:6% to give as good as he gets from these sort of... align:start size:94% position:6% Whether it's the politically correct police or Orwell might've called them the thought police, the people who decide what can be said, what can't be said, what can be discussed, what can't be discussed, what are the parameters of-- align:start size:94% position:6% - Well, there is obviously some media enjoyment of Trump's speaking style. align:start size:97% position:3% When he started talking about the baby, for instance, and you go back and you actually look at that align:start size:84% position:16% and he's just joking about the baby. And there's a media storm about his attacking a baby. You know, that's kind of silly. align:start size:88% position:13% On the other hand, he's so loose with words that his Second Amendment talk, or saying Mexicans are sending us their rapists. align:start size:97% position:3% I mean, those were legitimate concerns for all of us, that he can think in those terms, if we can call it thinking. - Right, it's... align:start size:97% position:3% I would not argue with anyone that my profession... It's not a profession, it's a craft at best. align:start size:97% position:3% That my craft distinguishes itself day-to-day in terms of seriousness. align:start size:88% position:13% There's a lot of serious stuff going on, align:start position:0% and whether Trump wants a crying baby in his speech or not align:start position:0% really isn't the most important story in a given day. - You know, I wanna talk a little bit align:start size:84% position:16% about your two great books, Triangle, which is about the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in 1911, which for 90 years was the worst industrial accident. 146 people lost their lives. But you make the case here align:start size:84% position:16% about the importance of newspapers in bringing attention to this. Herbert Bayard Swope, a fascinating guy, align:start size:94% position:6% takes the district attorney down to the fire while it's going on. And it only lasted less than an hour, the fire. align:start size:84% position:16% And so the newspapers played a role, and unions played a role. align:start size:94% position:6% The growth of unions during this period of time align:start size:97% position:3% in New York and in the garment business is enormous. align:start size:84% position:16% And it's also a story about immigrants and immigrant aid and immigrant support, and immigrants being brought into the Democratic party in New York, and changing Tammany Hall first align:start size:94% position:6% and then maybe the Democratic party forever. Again, a very different story align:start size:97% position:3% but also a story about parties morphing and changing. - The origin of this book for me was partly personal. align:start size:97% position:3% I moved to New York City and discovered that the fire align:start size:97% position:3% had happened in the neighborhood I was living in, and so that intrigued me. align:start size:84% position:16% But then on a professional level, I found myself covering politics and wanting to understand better how politic change actually happens. align:start size:84% position:16% And this, the Triangle Fire story, is such a tremendous story of how political change happened. The question occurred to me align:start size:88% position:13% as I begin to study this horrible disaster, with young people jumping from a nine-story window align:start size:84% position:16% in the middle of the day in Manhattan, align:start size:97% position:3% central Manhattan with thousands of people watching-- align:start size:94% position:6% - And the fire department there with the ladder that doesn't quite reach, and the nets that won't hold anybody. - And I would hear from people, align:start size:88% position:13% "Well, it was so shocking and so horrible align:start size:84% position:16% "that of course things had to change." And what I realized as I began to research it align:start size:94% position:6% was no, people were dying on the job every day align:start size:97% position:3% by the hundreds in that early industrial age period. And so my question became, well, why did this disaster out of all the disasters lead to as much change as it did? align:start size:94% position:6% And that opened up a story of politic organizing, of demographic change, of the Democratic party of New York align:start size:84% position:16% at this critical time in its history, and how that eventually and directly led to the New Deal, a national transformation. - So you talk about the factory owners align:start size:84% position:16% give the Tammany Hall Democrats money, which they liked a lot, but there were votes. And it was sort of money versus votes, and you had to get the people that organized the voters. align:start size:94% position:6% And you tell great stories about Frances Perkins, it's a fabulous story, align:start size:81% position:19% and a relationship with Al Smith, and a relationship with the Tammany Hall guys. And talk about that for-- align:start size:88% position:13% - Well, Al Smith and his friend Robert Wagner, a little less remembered but the author of the Social Security Act and other important New Deal legislation. align:start size:88% position:13% These were the two young stars of Tammany Hall in 1911 when this fire happened. align:start size:97% position:3% Tammany Hall was still a classic boss-run organization align:start size:97% position:3% like the Pendergast Machine here in Kansas City, very strong central leadership. And Smith and Wagner, an Irish kid from the Lower East Side align:start size:84% position:16% and a German immigrant kid from Yorkville, these two were the coming stars of Charlie Murphy's, Boss Murphy's party. align:start size:97% position:3% And they figured out that the old way of doing things, which was really based around Irish and German immigration in the middle of the 19th century, align:start size:97% position:3% had to change in the era of Jewish and Italian immigration in the early 20th century, and that this fire was the issue that would speak to that new generation. align:start size:94% position:6% - And they both had great social consciences. align:start size:97% position:3% At the same time they did the bidding of Tammany Hall, so they got rid align:start size:94% position:6% of the proto-civil service things in New York so they could continue with their pork barrel and patronage positions. At the same time, they went for the 52-hour-- - Right, they were... And this spoke to my feeling as I was watching how politics worked or didn't work in Washington DC, align:start size:97% position:3% that ideological purity, that getting every issue right is not necessarily the road to progress, that sometimes you have to compromise. Sometimes you have to hold your nose at a small issue align:start size:94% position:6% in order to get the bigger issue that you want. - There are lots of forces in the world align:start size:94% position:6% and lots of self-interest on various sides. And you tell a similar story, a similar but with big differences in rise to greatness, align:start size:88% position:13% your great book about Abraham Lincoln in 1862. And it's essentially the lead-up to the Emancipation Proclamation and the final declaration that slavery has to end, that the war's really been about slavery. align:start size:88% position:13% But you describe Lincoln as a gradualist, align:start size:97% position:3% as someone who's gotta work with the border states, very important. He's gotta work with the problem of the Europeans align:start size:84% position:16% who want to recognize the Confederacy because of cotton, the importance of cotton in the world economy. align:start size:88% position:13% And his time of rivals, cabinet, et cetera. align:start size:88% position:13% But it's interesting that you also talk about there's this pull in Lincoln. align:start size:88% position:13% He decides that divinity is shaping his ends. He quotes Hamlet. You quote him quoting Hamlet. align:start size:88% position:13% He becomes a very religious man, it seems, as the war progresses. He's waiting for the will of God to reveal itself, which essentially he's hopeful will lead him to ending slavery. align:start size:94% position:6% - Right. - Am I getting that right? align:start size:81% position:19% - Yeah, it's a fascinating story, align:start size:97% position:3% and one that's been discussed by Lincoln scholars and students of Lincoln since the day he died, align:start size:97% position:3% which was what did he really believe about religion? align:start size:97% position:3% And that clearly was a moving target through his life and through the years of his presidency. align:start size:84% position:16% But we do have this striking moment in the wake of the Battle of Antietam in September of 1862, align:start size:88% position:13% the bloodiest single day in American history. A very narrow Union victory, an imperfect Union victory but one that Lincoln took as a divine sign align:start size:84% position:16% that he was to emancipate the slaves. And he said that to his cabinet. And some of them wrote it down in their diaries, and all of them were shocked. align:start size:84% position:16% And Lincoln knew they would be shocked. He said to them, "You gentlemen align:start size:84% position:16% "are going to find this a little strange, "what I'm about to say, "but I've made a bargain with--" align:start size:94% position:6% - A covenant. - A covenant with my God. align:start size:94% position:6% He uses the word covenant with my creator, that if he gave us a victory in this battle I would free the slaves. - Newspaper play a role here, too. I'll ask you directly because I'm clear from the book, align:start size:97% position:3% what you think the influence of the open letter that Horace Greeley wrote align:start size:94% position:6% in a moment in the summer, I think, of 1862, when it's unclear what Lincoln is gonna do. He's talked in July about an Emancipation Proclamation, but it's unclear. align:start size:94% position:6% And Greeley writes this letter and says, "Come on, "you've gotta get going on this." Do you think that had an effect, align:start size:84% position:16% or was Lincoln using it as an excuse align:start size:84% position:16% for something he already wanted to do? - It produces... Horace Greeley was not the biggest newspaper man align:start size:88% position:13% in New York, but in ways the most influential. A highly mercurial figure who would go from despair to elation at the drop of a hat about the progress of the war. And this moment, August of 1862, was the low point for the Union in the entire war. And he chose this moment to issue this prayer of the 50 millions, attacking Lincoln. align:start size:88% position:13% It had become fashionable to call him the biggest slave owner in America, or slave holder. And Lincoln seized on this, I believe, align:start size:97% position:3% as an opportunity to reassure his conservative factions in the north. And remember, the north was not all emancipationists. align:start size:97% position:3% It was a coalition of people who supported slavery or slave owners in the border states, all the way over to the Horace Greeleys and the Charles Sumners and the great emancipationists. align:start size:84% position:16% They were all being held together by this one man, Lincoln. align:start size:97% position:3% And this was an opportunity to respond to Greeley. align:start size:84% position:16% He knew he was gonna free the slaves, align:start size:84% position:16% he knew he was gonna emancipate them, but he wanted to explain himself. And so he says to Greeley... In what some people take as a very controversial or offensive statement, he said, "I would save the Union. "If that means freeing all the slaves, I'll do that. align:start size:97% position:3% "If it means freeing none of the slaves, I'll do that. align:start size:94% position:6% "If it means freeing some and leaving others," which is what he was ultimately going to do align:start size:84% position:16% with the Emancipation Proclamation, "I'll do that." He knew what he was gonna do, align:start size:88% position:13% but he wanted to remind his constituencies why he was doing it, align:start size:84% position:16% to preserve the Union, to save the Union. Because that was the one thing all these disparate groups agreed on. So he focused on what people shared rather than what divided them. - And in part, he was claiming it to be a military necessity, which James Gordon Bennett responds to, the other great editor of the Times, saying, align:start size:84% position:16% "We hope this is not a dictatorial... "Act that will lead to the ultimate freeing "of all the slaves." Because Lincoln, of course, the Emancipation Proclamation only freed the slaves in the Confederate states-- align:start size:94% position:6% - In the states and places that were in rebellion. And he had offered the chance for people to keep their slaves, all they had to do was come back into the Union. align:start size:94% position:6% The act has been criticized for that reason ever since Lincoln took it. align:start size:97% position:3% But there were constitutional reasons for that. Remember, the Supreme Court align:start size:84% position:16% was still controlled at that time by the same majority that had written Dred Scott. align:start size:84% position:16% And they were waiting for Lincoln align:start size:84% position:16% to overstep his constitutional powers. So that was one limiting factor. align:start size:97% position:3% Lincoln knew at the time that once that step was taken, there was no going back on slavery. align:start size:88% position:13% - So character matters. - Yes. - Lincoln's character, Frances Perkin's character. If you read these very good books, if you read David Von Drehle in Time, you'll admire his judgment and you'll be better able to make your own judgments about the interesting characters of our time and the perilous times themselves. Thanks, David. - Thank you, Crosby. (light piano music) 