https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WzmShq7m-lo
1:20:53

```
moral  
morality  
splendid        adj. 极佳的，非常好的；壮丽的，华丽的；（一段时光）令人愉快的
depict          v. 描述，描绘
spiritual       adj. 精神的，心灵的；宗教的；（人）高尚的，不为物欲所动的
precede         v. 处在……之前，先于；在……之前做（或说）；比……更重要，比……（级别）更高
prototype       n. （新型汽车、机器等的）原型，雏形；典型，范例；蓝本，最初形态；（电子）原型滤波网络；（生物、天体等的）原始型；（建筑、汽车等的）全真模型
edify           vt. 熏陶；启发；教诲
elicit          v. 引出，得到；<古>使（潜在的东西）显现，诱出
myriad          n. 无数，极大数量
genre           n. 体裁，类型；风俗画
emeritus        adj. （尤指大学教师）退休后保留头衔的，名誉退休的
multitude       n. 众多，大量；民众，群众，大批百姓；一大群人
succinct        adj. 简洁的；简明的；紧身的
humane          adj. 人道的，仁慈的；（学科分支）人文的，高尚的
emulate         v. 仿效，模仿；仿真；努力赶上
gadget          n. 小器具，小玩意儿
foresight       n. 先见之明；（枪的）前准星；前视
bend            v. 弯曲（身体关节）；（路）转弯；歪曲（事实）；篡改；屈从；系，缚（帆，缆绳）；使弯曲，弄弯
discern         vt. 觉察出；识别；了解；隐约看见  
excise          n. 消费税，货物税  v. 切除；删除；收税，征税  
compatriot      n. 同胞，同国人；同事，伙伴
obscure         adj. 难以说清楚的，模糊的；鲜为人知的，默默无闻的；未被查实的，不确定的；费解的，晦涩的
superb          adj. 极佳的，质量极高的；（信心、控制力、技巧）非同一般的，超凡的；壮丽的，辉煌的；羽毛鲜艳夺目的
prodigious      adj. 惊人的，异常的，奇妙的；巨大的  
formulate       v. 制定，规划；确切表达，认真阐述；用公式表示
apprehend       vt. 理解；逮捕；忧虑
whimsical       adj. 古怪的；异想天开的；反复无常的
fascinate       v. <旧>（尤指蛇）以眼神震慑（人，动物），使无法动弹；深深吸引，迷住
contrive        v. 谋划，策划；设计，发明；设法做到  
rehabilitate    v. （监禁、戒毒或病后通过培训和治疗）使恢复正常生活；恢复……的权利，恢复……的名誉；使（建筑物或地区）恢复原状，修复  
commemorate     v. 纪念，用以纪念
pale            adj. （脸色）苍白的；（颜色）浅的，淡的；（光线）暗淡的，微弱的；较差的，逊色的
integrate       v. （使）合并，成为一体；（使）加入，融入群体；（使）取消种族隔离；求……的积分；表示（面积、温度等）的总和，表示……的平均值  
transcend       v. 超出，超越；胜过（某人），超过（某项成就）
botany          n. 植物学；（特定地区的）植物（生态）    
dull            adj. 枯燥无聊的；无精打采的；不明亮的；（声音）不清晰的；阴沉的；不明显的，隐隐的；钝的；迟钝的，愚笨的；萧条的
multifaceted    adj. 多层面的，包罗万象的，要从多方面考虑的；多刻面的
fabricate       v. 制造，生产；捏造，编造；组装，装配
nurture         v. 培养，促进；养育，培育；抱有，怀有；扶持，帮助；滋养，滋生
ingredient      n. （食品的）成分，原料；要素，因素
superficial     adj. 粗浅的，粗略的；（思想）浅薄的，缺乏深度的；表面的，乍看起来的（尤指实际并非如此）；（伤势或伤害）表皮的；（皮肤、土壤或岩石）表层的；不重要的，无关痛痒的；<英>（建筑）面积的，平方的
council         n. 委员会，理事会；政务委员会，地方议会；会议；（教会的）集会
contempt        n. 轻视，蔑视；忽视，不顾；藐视法庭
envisage        v. 设想，想象；正视，面对
metropolitan    adj. 大都市的；本土的；（与）宗主国（有关）的
grasp           v. 抓牢，握紧；理解，领会；抓住（机会）
genuine         adj. 真正的，非伪造的；真诚的，真心的
clash           n. 冲突，交战；争论，争执；交锋，比赛；分歧，差异；（金属的）撞击声；（时间上的）冲突，撞期；（颜色、图案等的）不相配
acute           adj. 严重的，危险的；急性的，剧烈的；灵敏的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；锐角的；带尖音符的；（声音）高的，尖的
interdisciplinary  adj. 跨学科的
confess         v. 供认，招供；承认，坦白；忏悔，告解；聆听忏悔
confine         v. 限制，局限；防止……扩散；关押，监禁；使离不开（或受困于床、轮椅等）
facet           n. 部分，方面；（宝石的）琢面，刻面；（构成昆虫或甲壳动物复眼的）小眼面
cosmic          adj. 宇宙的，外层空间的；巨大的，极重要的；精神的，神灵的
monumental      adj. 丰碑式的，伟大的；极大（坏，好等）的；纪念碑的，纪念性的；巨大的，庞大的
manifest        v. 显示，表明；（鬼魂或神灵）显灵，出现；（病症）显现；把……列入货单
bestow          vt. 使用；授予；放置；留宿
endow           v. 向（人，机构）捐赠，资助；赋予
utter           adj. 完全的，彻底的
predecessor     n. 前任，前辈；（被取代的）原有事物，前身
implication     n. 可能的影响（或作用、结果）；含意，暗指；牵连，涉及
accord          n. 协议，条约；符合，一致
divine          adj. 神的，天赐的；绝妙的，极令人愉快的
recuperate      vi. 恢复，复原；挽回损失
distress        n. 忧虑，悲伤；贫困；危难，险情；（肉体的）剧痛
contemplate     v. 沉思，深思熟虑；盘算，打算；凝视，注视；考虑接受（发生某事的可能性）
baffle          vt. 使…困惑；使…受挫折；用挡板控制
resonance       n. [力] 共振；共鸣；反响
competent       adj. 能干的，能胜任的；合格的，过得去的；精神正常的，智力无缺陷的；有决定权的；有法定资格的；活性的，（处于）感受态的
compose         v. 组成，构成；作曲；撰写（信、诗或演讲稿）；使镇静，使平静；为（照片、图像）构图；排版，排稿
glean           vt. 收集（资料）；拾（落穗）
blow  
psyche          n. 灵魂；心智
contingent      n. （军队的）分遣队；代表团
impetus         n. 动力，促进；动量，冲力
renowned        adj. 有名望的，著名的
wreck           v. 破坏，断送（计划、关系等）；（严重）破坏，毁坏（车辆或建筑物）；造成（船舶）失事，使遇难；<史>毁船打劫；<美>（为获取有用的零件、碎料而）拆，拆除（破汽车、旧建筑物等）；营救失事船只；失事
refrain         v. 克制，避免
compensation    n. 赔偿金，补偿金；弥补，抵消；报酬，薪水
consult         v. 咨询，请教；商量，商讨；查询，查阅；当顾问
lament          n. 挽歌；恸哭；悲痛之情
flatter         v. 奉承，讨好；使高兴，使感到荣幸；使显得更漂亮；使（某物）显得更重要（更好）
eternal         adj. 永恒的，永存的；似乎无休无止的，没完没了的
elaborate       adj. 复杂的，详尽的；精心制作的
noble           adj. 崇高的，高尚的；宏伟的，卓越的；贵族的，高贵的；惰性的
impart          vt. 告知，传授；透露，透漏；赋予，给予（尤指抽象事物）
mime            n. 哑剧；小丑；滑稽戏
contradict      v. 反驳，否认；相抵触，相矛盾；发生矛盾
aristocrat      n. 贵族，贵族成员
prevail         v. 流行，盛行；（在比赛、竞赛或争辩中）击败，获胜；占优势，占上风；（继续）使用；说服，劝服（prevail on/upon）
exacerbate      vt. 使加剧；使恶化；激怒
bust            n. 半身像；女子胸部，胸围；突击搜查；没价值的事物；经济萧条时期
ruminate        vt. 反刍；沉思；反复思考
instruct        v. 指示，吩咐；教授，指导；聘请（律师），托办；通知；（法官向陪审团）建议，作说明
authentic       adj. 原作的，真迹的；传统的，正宗的；逼真的，仿真的；真实的，可靠的
reverse         v. 逆转，彻底改变（决定、政策、趋势等）；撤销，推翻（法庭判决）；颠倒，反转；交换，互换（位置、功能）；<美>承认错误，放弃（立场）；倒（车）；（发动机）反向运转；<英>打对方付费的电话；使（铅字，图案）印成白或浅色
mighty          adj. 强大的，巨大的；（动作）用力的，需用力的
coincide        v. 巧合，同时发生；一致，相符；相交，重叠
excavate        v. 发掘，挖掘（古物）；挖（洞），开凿
speculate       v. 猜测，推测；投机
gloss           n. 光彩；用以产生光泽的物质；光泽涂料；假象；注释
odyssey         n. 奥德赛（古希腊史诗）；漫长的旅程  
ankle           n. 脚踝，踝关节
constitute      v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命
entitle         v. 给予（某人）权利，给（某人）资格；给......命名，给......题名
barbarian       n. 野蛮人；未开化的人；无教养的人
allege          vt. 宣称，断言；提出……作为理由    
monarch         n. 君主，女王；黑脉金斑蝶；王鹟
prompt          v. 促使，导致；鼓励，提示（说话者）；（计算机上）提示；（给演员）提词，提白
withhold        v. 保留，隐瞒；克制，抑制（情感或反应等）
loutish         adj. 粗野的；笨拙的；无礼的
dedicate        v. 致力于，献身于；把（书、戏剧、音乐作品等）献给；为（建筑物或教堂）举行奉献（或落成）典礼
invoke          vt. 调用；祈求；引起；恳求  
epic            n. （讲述英雄冒险经历的）叙事诗，史诗；史诗般的书籍（或电影等）；壮举，惊人之举；<非正式>特别耗时费力的事（或活动）
obsess          v. 使着迷；使心神不宁；挂牵，念念不忘
sketch          n. 素描，速写，草图；（任何作品的）粗样，初稿；简述，概述；幽默短剧，滑稽小品；<非正式，旧>滑稽的人（或物）
conjunction     n. 结合，同时发生；连词；（占星术中两个天体的）相合
```

Master of those who Know: Aristotle as Role Model for the 21st-Century `Academician`

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en (dramatic electronic music) - [Voiceover] 

Stanford University. This program is brought to you by the Stanford Humanities Center. For more information, please visit us at shc.stanford.edu - 

Good evening, everybody, and welcome to the latest in our series of lectures on classical culture, in honor of Lorenz Eitner. My name is Richard Martin. I teach in the Classics Department here `from time to time`, and before the introduction of our speaker this evening, it's really proper to say a few words about the man for whom the lecture series is named. The late Lorenz Eitner was Osgood Hooker Professor `Emeritus` of Fine Arts at Stanford. He was born in, what is now the Czech Republic, to Austrian parents, and he spent his early years in Germany before immigrating to the United States at the age of 16, where he went to Duke University, graduating in 1940, which meant that he immediately went into the army, and during World War II, he served, like many future academics, as an intelligence officer, with the Office of Strategic Services, ending up at Nuremberg, in the Office of `the Chief of Prosecution`. So, on his return to the States, Eitner undertook Graduate Studies in Art History at Princeton, where he received his PhD in 1952. Then began his long association with Stanford. Actually, he was called here from a position in Minnesota, specifically to chair the Department of Art and Architecture. And the job included, without additional compensation, the new President might note, the task of overseeing the administration of the Stanford Museum. At that time, the Museum was less concentrated on art or perhaps it was more trendily post-modern than anyone ever imagined, because its collections included such material culture objects as a railroad car and a shark head `embalmed` in glass. (light laughter) The latter, which was acquired long before Damien Hirst was even born. (laughter) Eitner refocused this museum, got rid of the railroad car, increasing its space more than tenfold, refurbished the galleries, acquired important drawings and paintings, and largely made the Cantor Center what it is today. He also oversaw the completion of the Cummings Art Building, now recently torn to the ground, (laughter) and built up the Art History Department, in other ways, through a number of world-class appointments. His own research on European Romantic paintings gained international recognition, especially his work on Gericault. For 25 years, until his retirement in 1989, Eitner chaired the Department. Think of that, Grant. (light laughter) Even then, he continued to lead an active scholarly life. Up to the day of his death, in March 2009, he was corresponding, being asked to authenticate paintings for dealers, et cetera, and he's remembered with admiration, as a scholar and administrator, but also as a teacher. He probably touched more souls as a teacher than anything. He would typically have 250 students in Art 1. His scholarship combined a universality of thinking, with great taste and connoisseurship. So he embodied a passion not just for art, but a love of literature and humanities, in the ways that help preserve our humane natures, ways from the past, creative ways to bring the past to the contemporary world, which is what we think our department still does, in these days of presentism and adulation of the merely technical, which I know is `heresy` to say in parts of this campus. We'd still like to follow Eitner's example. It was in his spirit that the Department set out 10 years ago to commemorate him in the Eitner Lectures, and the inspiration and essential support for that came from Peter and Lindsay Joost, and I am pleased once again to be able to acknowledge them this evening for their foresight and their on-going, wonderful commitment. Thank you, Peter and Lindsay. Our speaker tonight, joins a long line of internationally-renowned scholars who have lectured under the Eitner aegis, on the values and problematics of Classical Culture, and so it is my pleasure now to turn over to my colleague and Classics Rush Rehm, the enviable task of introducing our speaker. 

I shall be `brief`. It is an extraordinary honor to introduce Edith Hall. I don't know if any of you were `awakened` last night by the storm, but where I lived, it was extraordinary: thunder, lightning, rain like I haven't heard where I live in a long time, and I woke up, and I thought, "Edith is coming." (laughter) She's held several positions in universities at Reading, Durham, Royal College Holloway, currently University College London, also Oxford and Cambridge, and she has done more than anyone I know to help us rethink Greek tragedy, ancient performance, cultural receptivity, the dynamics of cultural reception, and her list of publications is absolutely unbelievable. I will just name a few of them. She's edited any number of volumes, a couple of them I've actually had the good fortune to contribute to: Agamemnon in Performance, Aristophanes in Performance, Medea in Performance. She's written on a groundbreaking book on Persians and the idea of the barbarian. She's written a relatively new book on Iphigenia among the Taurians. She's written books on slavery, on the reception of Classics in Great Britain and also in India. The list is extraordinary. I don't know anyone with the range of intelligence, the profligacy of mind, almost anything you pick up of Edith's is really, really worth reading. I wrote a review of one of the books she edited and I'd found much of the book unimpressive, except her essay, which I said "was absolutely required reading "for anybody interested in Sophocles." So, without further ado, let me just introduce one of the really wonderful, dynamic, amazing, intelligent Classicists. We are so lucky to have her here. Edith Hall. (applause) - 

Thank you so very much. Thank you very much, Richard. Thank you very much, Rush. Extraordinarily `flattering` introduction. And thank you in particular to Peter and Lindsay Joost for making this all possible. I'm really `thrilled` to be here. And, there he is. Lorenz Eitner. He was a great art historian, and it's to pay his memory respects, that I'm actually going to begin-- He's looking at a `bust`, with Aristotle with the `bust` of Homer, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Rembrandt painted it in 1653, for Antonio Ruffo, a Sicilian aristocratic collector, and it solicited myriad interpretations. Beside the standing philosopher, on the bust of the ancient Greek poet, who composed, of course, the epic Iliad and `Odyssey`, Rembrandt has included other ingredients. There's a `medallion`, suspended from the heavy gold chain, adorned with the head of Alexander the Great, Aristotle's student and patron. So what's going on here? Is the ruminating philosopher contrasting material and spiritual values, or comparing art with other forms of intellectual activity, science, and philosophy? Or is the primary interest that Homer is blind, while Aristotle, who is touching him, but not looking quite directly at him, was a natural scientist who favored an empirical method? I tend to agree with those art historians who think that Aristotle's attitude of mental abstraction is trying to suggest that his thoughts are directed not simply to the sculpture's superficial appearance, but also to its causes, or to Homer, or to the question of causation itself. For Aristotle, the very activity of contemplation, which he called "theoria," our word, "Theory," isn't limited to the appearances of things as we find them contingently, but is always concerned with their causes, on which more are non. In his metaphysics, Aristotle repeatedly uses works of `sculpture`, when trying to illustrate what he means by "causes." And his focus on the visual arts, in his metaphysics, inevitably drew the interest of artists, like Rembrandt. But the painting's conjunction of Homer, with golden chain, would inevitably prompt any classicist or classically-educated 17th century viewer just think, of course, of the golden chain, with which Zeus in the Iliad boasts he could drag earth, sea, and all the other Gods to Olympus and bind them to dangle in space, and Zeus' golden chain was adopted by the Neoplatonists as an image of the mind of God, or of divine order in the universe. Bacon, and other 16th and 17th century thinkers, used it as an image of philosophy, or dialectic reason, as well as of Cosmology, but in 1650, just three years before Rembrandt painted this picture, renowned classicist and fellow Dutchman, Gerhard Johann Vossius suggested a new interpretation, wonderful new interpretation. For Vossius, the chain represented the inter-relationship of all the arts and sciences. The chain, which connects the knowledge of particulars in the separate fields, is, of course, the chain of... Philosophy. So, in this lecture, I want to think about the interconnectiveness of all the arts and sciences, as represented, of course, by the activities at Stanford University, with its unusual emphasis on interdisciplinary research and the vision of its founders, Jane and Leland Stanford, which I gather is being celebrated for its 125th anniversary this very year. 

They, having lost their only son, were determined to help fulfill the potential of as many other young people as possible. Now, and potential is a key word in this lecture, since I can't link all the arts and sciences together with a cosmic chain, nor indeed one `bestowed` on me by Alexander the Great, then I can at least try to do it with a 21st-century celebration of Aristotle's towering achievements and with thoughts about how we can benefit from one of his most extraordinary ideas, which is potentiality. "Dunamis," dynamite. Aristotelian dynamite. In Leland Stanford's fourth Senate speech, on behalf of his land loan bill, he supported his progressive case with questions from political theorists, including Aristotle, as well as Benjamin Franklin, David Hume, and John Stuart Mill. And this year, come July, will mark another very important anniversary. Aristotle's 2,400th birthday. In Stagira, in 384 B.C. (laughter) Stagira is the Eastern prong of the triple peninsula of Calcidice, in the Northern Aegean, and there will be celebrations around his statue there. Actually, I'm going in April to do some reconnoitering. Now, Aristotle is today, of course, an extraordinarily controversial figure, and Josh Ober is one of the biggest experts on just why he's so controversial. His historically contingent ideas about women's slaves, empires and elites, `excised` from the context of their expression in his politics, especially Book 1, have received a very great deal of criticism, quite rightly from feminists and civil rights activists. But these `unconscionable` views must, surely, not be allowed to eclipse his monumental achievements in other fields. He wrote over 150 treatises, which changed intellectual history forever. We are Aristotelians, in some way or another, in the way we think. 

There are, of course, many aspects of him to emulate. He didn't `patronize` people with whom he disagreed, he even talked respectfully about pre-scientific thinkers on the mythological origins of the universe, because he "got it," that their works were attempts at an explanation of first principles. Although he was quite clear that religion could be used by despots to manipulate their subjects, he was unlike some more polemical thinkers of his time, in that he didn't regard the practice of religion, doing religion, as a verb, piety, with contempt. And he saw no contradiction, and I find this very appealing, between looking for scientific explanations of the things in the universe and assuming that there was a disinterested divinity, his "unmoved mover" beyond human ken. In fact, he seems to have sensed a relationship well before Stephen Hawking's, between sort of divinity and the concept of the act of intellect, a sense underlying his accounts of how the human intellect develops from its original unthinking state in On the Soul and Metaphysics. It's not actually completely clear whether his concept of the active intellect is inherent in humans or somehow externally operating on them, but he did see some link between the active intellect, human intellectual potential, when actualized, with the "unmoved mover," and therefore, with God. And his reception, at least, until the Renaissance, offers us a `paradigm` for emphasizing what Western and Arabic intellectual traditions have in common. His `Metaphysics` in particular, when translated into Arabic was instrumental in the foundation of "falsafa," Arabic philosophy in the 9th century, and elicited a massive commentary by the Spanish Arab philosopher Ibn Rushd Averroes. Studied avidly in the West as well. And just as valuable for us to think about is his identification of the primary goal of human life, with individual mental fulfillment and virtue-based happiness, however we like to translate eudaimonia. I often think it needs to be translated as "competence." Just doing things well. And responsibility to the whole community, rather than with wealth acquisition. Aristotle approved of certain amount of distributive economic justice. He understood that poverty is a cause of revolution and crime, but the achievement I want to focus on, on the first half of the lecture, after a biographical sketch is Aristotle's transcendence of the distinction between research in different fields, and this will lead us into the discussion towards the end of his unique concept of the dunamis, the dynamite, the potentiality within things and how that concept might enrich deliberation about the education of all our citizens in our increasingly globalized village. Now, in 1959, the year I was born, the physical chemist and novelist C.P. Snow delivered the Rede Lecture at Cambridge and he lamented the gulf yawning between the two worlds. He called them galaxies, constituting the sciences and the arts plus humanities, respectively. "Literary intellectuals," he said,"at one pole "at the other scientists... "Between the two a gulf of mutual incomprehension-- "Sometimes... hostility and dislike, "most of all lack of understanding." And the lack of understanding had prevailed instead of the nurturing, with what he called a "clashing point "between arts and sciences," which could produce what he called, "Creative Chances," opportunities. Snow argued, then, Cold War, that without the industrialization of the planet, the rich/poor divide, globally, would only grow, and I know that this is something that Walter Scheidel is very interested in, both the USA and the USSR, he said, needed to train squadrons of scientists to bring about the improvement of living conditions for all humans. And despite the steady rise of the third academic cultures, the social sciences, the gulf between Snow's galaxies yawns as widely as ever. Historically, it's been connected with the celebration of Plato over Aristotle and indeed, of Erasmus over Renaissance scientists, like Kepler and Copernicus. In my own country, very little has happened to bring Snow's two galaxies closer. Most people who continue school after 16 specialize in arts or sciences. My daughter is most unusual in doing Double Maths, History, Economics, and French. That's actually most unusual. Although most people are dragged through a play by Shakespeare before 16 and a smattering of deeply parochial national history that never mentions the British Empire, very few can explain the Second Law of Thermodynamics. Now I now can! (light laughter) It's the one about the egg, OK? (laughter) Now the gap between the two galaxies is usually traced to the industrial revolution, but the domination of education of elites by humanities actually has a far longer and more complicated history, stretching back to Classical Antiquity. The natural scientist, the physiologus, is already portrayed as a figure of fun, by comedian Aristophanes in the 5th Century B.C. The physiologus in question, of course, was Socrates, who was interested in the physical constitution of the universe as a young man. Unfortunately, Socrates left no written record of any of his studies on cosmology or anything else, and his student, Plato, who really did despise the material universe, and regarded a set of second-rate simulacra of non-material ideas, I think, has to bear a lot of responsibility for the separation between the studies we lump under the headings of Arts and Science. Now, Platonic philosophy is written in alluring, humorous, glossy, whimsical prose dialogues. Aristotle also wrote artistic dialogues, designed for a wider public than his dry treatises, but sadly, none of the literary ones, the accessible literary ones have survived. Now there are a few rather `contrived` puns in Aristotle's surviving treatises, but Plato's style was, in antiquity, far more appealing than Aristotle's to pretty much everybody. Plato's thought with infinitely more preferred by Ancient Christians with their need to posit a spiritual world prior to the material one, and Neo-Platonism helped to fertilize the animosity between Christianity and scientific inquiry that still reverberates among Christian fundamentalists today, especially American Creationists. Aristotle, on the other hand, believed that things in the world take their definition from their particular material properties, neither from some immaterial essence or ideal form, nor from the thought of God. And he investigated the world through recording it empirically and developing logical systems of analyzing those empirical data. Now of all the great minds of antiquity, Aristotle's is the one which raised the bar on intellectual inquiry, in a way that still profoundly affects what all academic researchers and their students do today. What do we know about him? There are several ancient sources of biography, including A Life by Diogenes Laertius, though most of it consists of gossipy fictions, invented by detractors. What is certain is that he was from Stagira, a small, but strategically important city-state, which had seen conquerors and allies, including Persia, Athens, and Sparta. When Aristotle was born, 2,400 years ago, Stagira was increasingly dominated by its mighty neighbor, Macedon. Aristotle's dad was physician to King Amyntus III of Macedon, who ruled between 393 and 370, and was the father of Philip the Second. The royal family and the medical family may have been very close, and Aristotle, interestingly to me, was an almost exact contemporary of Philip. He was born just two years after him, in 382. Sorry, Philip was born just two years later. So, they're very much equal, in terms of age and historical experience. Now, Aristotle went off as a youth, a precocious youth we understand, to Athens to study with Plato, where else but at the Academy, and he stayed there 20 years. Much of his work is a response to Plato's ideas, although their disagreements are absolutely fundamental, and I think they probably were from much earlier than Werner Jaeger. Aristotle left Athens in 348, in the year when Philip finally destroyed poor little Stagira. The philosopher went not to Northwest Asia Minor to Assos and Atarneus. Actually, to the place just over the water from Lesbos, where all the poor refugees are setting out from, to the court of his friend, Hermias, who had been a fellow student at the Academy. A great friendship was very, very important for Aristotle and all his sort. He even married Hermias' daughter, Pythias. Then he went over that strait to Lesbos, where he studied zoology intensively alongside another friend from the Academy, Theophrastus, whose specialism was botany, and this is my key picture. I just love the idea of all these lions on Lesbos. This is Aristotle enjoying the animals and Theophrastus enjoying the plants. The importance of the wildlife, in and around the lagoon at Pyrrha, on that island, where I'm also going at Easter, has recently been explained in a really beautiful book by Armand Marie Leroi: The Lagoon: How Aristotle Invented Science. But in 343, Aristotle took up the apppointment to tutor to the young Alexander, and I love it, when you get off a boat of Thessaloniki, just as Aristotle must often have done, this is now what you see. So short legs, so, aren't they? You know, hey. Eight years he was his tutor, and eight years later in 335, when Alexander had succeeded Philip and taken control of Athens, Aristotle returned to Athens to find his Lyceum, and write most of those treatises in his golden sixth decade. He's a great example of those of us over 50, who are worried that we're losing it. The period of intense intellectual activity in Athens was cut short by the death of Alexander, though, in 323. The Athenians turned against everyone associated with Macedonian rule. Aristotle sensed danger and seems to have been charged with failing to honor the Gods, a political move, probably, rather than a religious one, and he escaped the family estate, which belonged to his mother in Euboea, Ewia, the very, very long island, on the sort of eastern side of the mainland of Greece, and he died the year after, either by natural causes, perhaps stomach cancer, or suicide. The place of his burial isn't known. The medieval travelogue of my compatriot, Sir John Mandeville, first printed in 1499, claimed that there was a tomb and a cult, as if for a saint in Stagira, but British archaeologist, Sir Charles Walston, on the other hand, claimed to have excavated Aristotle's tomb, complete with writing styluses under portrait statuette in Euboea, near Chalcis, in the early 1890s. I'm going there, too. The death tradition with the most resonance and cultural history claims that Aristotle leapt into the waves at the narrow straits at Euripus, which divides Euboea from the mainland. He leapt into them and drowned, and the suicide was allegedly motivated by frustration that he couldn't get to understand, solve the problem of the very real, violent tides there, which reversed direction four times a day, and actually, this problem wasn't solved until an article by a brilliant Greek astronomer, Demetrius Eginitis, in 1929. Now this suicide was an invention of his early Christian detractors, who wanted to present him as something finally acknowledged, he couldn't explain the universe without God. He was supposed to have cried out as he fell, "Since Aristotle didn't grasp the Euripus, "let Euripus take Aristotle." And this fabricated acceptance of Deism continued to be cited by Christians until Dryden's Catholic Conversion tract Religio Laici of 1682, and there's some lines from that under this picture of Aristotle supposed Euripus suicide, which circulated a century later, in 1786. This is all an attempt to say, "It's OK to be an Aristotelian and do science, "but we mustn't forget that he converted "at the last minute." Now the Christian obsession with Aristotle's position on God and nature, has obscured the range of his interests. There was no constituent of the universe in which he wasn't interested. Whether it was empirically discernible to the senses or lying beneath and beyond the perceptible surface of things. In the Nicomachea and the Eudemian Ethics, he posits happiness, eudaemonia, living competently and well as the fundamental goal in human life, and Thomas Jefferson, undoubtedly, got the idea of the pursuit of happiness from Aristotle. Eudaemonia is an activity, rather than an abstract state. The function of human life is to perform it. Its equivalent to living rationally in an examined and liberated way, in `accordance` with virtue, "arete." On Aristotle's political theories, an extension of this ethical position to the whole community or city-state, since happiness, living well, and competently together is the goal of the city-state, and the reason for its existence. On two of Aristotle's ideas about competently living, this good life had been the lynch pin of my own morality. Confession time. Since I first encountered him as a student, having listened to too much R.E.M. and lost my religion. I was brought up quite a strict Protestant, at the age of 13, and I had a huge moral and ethical vacuum, which I didn't manage to fill until I read Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics at University. The first is the importance of deliberation, taught (mumbles). Although, because of the element of chance, you can never guarantee that you will make what turns out to be the most advantageous decision when you deliberate, you can guarantee that you deliberated in the way best equipped to maximize your chances of achieving the most advantageous outcome, and this involves a certain method of deliberation a massing and verifying information, investigating precedents, consulting disinterested specialists and calibrating likelihoods. Now because I'm actually so impetuous, this has really saved me. All right? The second principle to which I've constantly returned is more important to me than almost anything is the idea that you can commit an injustice by omission, as well as by commission, and the most `succinct` expression of this comes in Nicomachean Ethics 3: "Where we are free to act, "but also free to refrain from acting, "where we are able to say, 'No,' "we are also able to say, 'Yes.' "If therefore, we're responsible for doing a thing, "when to do it is right, "we are also responsible for not doing it, "when not to do it is wrong." And this to me vital ethical principle is rarely invoked these days, except in the sole area where the public is routinely invited to think about moral choices, which is medical ethics. And so people talk about it on the question of the morality of withholding medical treatment and so on, but I think it has far more to offer, far too much of our public morality these days, especially as regards people who want to wield executive power over us, revolves around asking if they've ever slipped up. 

Certainly in Britain, it's all, they've managed to keep their nose clean. We never ask enough what politicians, presidents of universities, funding councils, successful bankers, have failed to do, and how they've just `abnegated` the duties of leadership. I want positive C.V.'s. Now Aristotle's anniversary's coming over a time when there's been a pronounced and surprising revival of interest in his thought. Alfredo Marcos' 2012 Postmodern Aristotle has given us what G.E.R. Lloyd calls "a picture of a flexible and `multifaceted` Aristotle "who has lively contributions to make "to many of today's on-going philosophical controversies." Absolutely. And these include controversies which have grown out of and responded to C.S. Peirce Semiotics, Gadamer's Hermeneutics, Alasdair MacIntyre's Virtue Ethics, Martha Nussbaum's Moral Particularism, and The New Rhetoric of Legal Philosophy of Chaim Perelman. Thinker's discontent with Hume's Subordination of Reason to Desire and Kantian abstractions are very attractive, carried on by Aristotle's idea of learn-able moral life skills, involving deliberation and application in practice, phonesis, practical wisdom. And you get better at it as you go along is the idea, it's cumulative. Now we all know that Aristotle's writings are unified by the basic methods of reasoning he evolved, expressed in the group of works on logic, which subsequent ancient philosophers put together and called his Organon, Instrument. And these monopolized the entire history of philosophical logic until the critiques by Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell. And some philosophers are rehabilitating many of his concepts today. It's certainly still astonishing that he could take the very methods of philosophical reason, which he found in Plato and his predecessors and treat the actual inferential systems as a topic of analysis themselves. He wasn't only interested in what made the world work in the way that it did, but in the exact form of arguments on which thinkers based their conclusions about the world. So, philosophy itself have become the object of philosophical analysis. Now, it's no coincidence that this philosopher-scientist came from a medical family. Since it was the Hippocratic doctors who produced the only really methodical study of living bodies by the 4th century, and Aristotle undertook a systematic and astonishingly comprehensive study of animals, which also functions to explain his self-consciously applied analytical method. And it wasn't until the European Renaissance that any comparable contribution to zoology was ever produced. I've heard biologists at my institution make similar statements to the Victorian anatomist Richard Owen, who said, "Zoological science sprang from Aristotle's "labors like Minerva from the head of Jove "in a state of noble and splendid maturity." Aristotle has been `recuperated` widely in scientific fields. An important example is Conrad Hal Waddington, whose concept of the Epigenetic landscapes, which underlies evolutionary developmental biology owes much as to Aristotle. And in Economics, the Social science, Amartya Sen has openly acknowledged Aristotle was an important inspiration in his capabilities approach and the human development index. Aristotle's multi-disciplinary treatises contained dazzling moments of what I think might be better called "trans-disciplinary thought," where we indeed see a creative opportunity produced by Snow's idea of the clashing point between the galaxies. Aristotle took an intense interest in the world around him and practical crafts, which I find very touching. He sometimes identified the most dazzling images in one sphere of human activity and experimentation to introduce in the understanding of another branch altogether. It's one of the marks of a superb teacher. My favorite of all is probably his illustration of epikeia, or equity, in the legal sphere, and he said that equity functions like the special kind of measuring instrument or ruler, used by builders on Lesbos. He'd seen builders on Lesbos, and he's explaining a jurisprudential idea. He says that equity functions like this. It's made out of lead, and although the measure of distance or angle remains, in one sense, fixed, as laws need to, if they'd been made out of long-thinking about generalities, but in another sense, it's adaptable and can bend itself to suit the precise shape of the stone. Dazzling! The first time I realized that as a specialist in literature I couldn't afford to ignore Aristotle, the practical scientist, came in the Poetics, and I believe that Aristotle revolutionized the prevailing theory of the arts by using observations he's made during scientific inquiries. The Poetics is what remains of Aristotle's lectures on poetry. It's most concerned with tragic and epic poetry, and he defends such poetry against the sustained attacks of Socrates, at least of Socrates as reported by Plato in The Republic, and the ion, who I prefer to call Platocrates. Platocrates' objections to epic and theatrical genres are several: He regards them as feeding the irrational part of the soul and as providing bad moral examples in the conduct of both Gods and humans. In the discussion of poetry in Books 2 to 3 of The Republic, Platocrates rules that no poets should be allowed to perform in his ideal polity unless they're singing hymns to the Gods or encomiums of virtuous man, oh yawn, but he does throw down a gauntlet asking anyone, and you can actually feel the young Aristotle in the room going, you know. OK. Anyone who's a lover of poetry, to present a case proving poetry can be beneficial to the community as well. It's pleasurable, and I take the Poetics of Aristotle's direct response to this challenge. His famous theory of catharsis that tragedy actually helps humans deal with difficult emotions, however that works, and I know it's controversial, but deal with them, rather than exacerbate their deleterious effects is a very, very important plank, clearly, in that case. But the catharsis argument will not answer the most intractable of Platocrates' arguments against the arts, and that is that they are false. The mimetic media, which used charming arts, merely to imitate or represent people in action. They give people false impressions, but there's worse. According to Platocrates' idealist model of the universe, what we apprehend by the senses in the physical world is a pale and inferior imitation of the real world, which the real one consists of eternal and changeable immaterial ideas of forms, so mimetic art just does, offers only a third-class view of reality, being an imitation of an imitation. Now Aristotle, of course, does not agree with this. He thinks the empirically discernable world is fascinating and the systemic study of it is inherently good. He also seems to have come to the question of the arts with a willingness to be persuaded that they haven't much to offer humans. He talks about music being used in the cure of the mentally ill. A man who had access to the Macedonian court in the earlier 4th century will have been exposed to theatrical and musical performances, and very, very many more during those two decades, studying in Athens. Aristotle tackles the allegation, that it's a representation, an artic imitation of any kind, visual or verbal, is false at best, and dangerous at worst, and his instincts for teleology, to look for what something is aiming at, what it's going to grow into, it's telos, make him look for the origin and causes of poetry. Very, very famous in the Poetics. But it always bears hearing again. "From childhood, humans have an instinct for "representation. "And in this respect, "the human differs from the other animals "in that he's far more imitative "and learns his first lessons by representing things. "And that's the enjoyment," he says. "Pleasure, which fame is always good, "if it's done with virtue. "What happens in actual experience?" he says, "proves this. "We enjoy looking at accurate likenesses of things "which are themselves distressing to see. "The forms of beasts "or the least regarded being and corpses. "The reason is this: "Learning things gives great pleasure "not only to philosophers but also in the same way "to all people, although they share the pleasure "to a smaller degree." Now I'll return in my conclusion to the fundamentally anti-elitist idea that it's not only lovers of wisdom who feel pleasure when they learn things. Everybody does. But now I want to focus on the choice of industritive example he makes when he wants to describe how people can learn about things too unpleasant to look at in reality, by looking at pictures of them, or likenesses of them. This is the argument that says watching tragedy, which has things in it that are really too painful to bear in real life, actually helps you learn about them in a pleasurable way. Brilliant argument. He says, and he picks low beasts, low animal life forms and human corpses. We can learn about these horrible things by looking at pictures of them. Now corpses are not particularly surprising in a treatise on tragic theater, but the low beasts are surely a surprise. The adjective he used means something like insects or primitive sea creatures, and I think he's actually talking specifically about the types of diagram which he uses in his Zoology, and indeed discusses in parts of animals in his so-called Invitation to Biology. "Even if an animal is unattractive to the senses," he says, "It will always delight the person of philosophic bent "who looks to the causes of things." Doesn't matter how hideous a beast is, if you're a philosopher, it's gonna give you pleasure. He says "you can always learn about it "from pictures and you'll still get pleasure, "though it's actually better to examine the animal itself." And he definitely used anatomical diagrams, and Leroi in The Lagoon has commissioned attempts at reconstructing them. He wrote an eight-book work called The Anatomist which included diagrams showing the way that parts of animals fitted together, and in The History of Animals, 525, he actually refers to his diagram of a dissected cuttlefish. Right? Actually says to look at this bit of my diagram. He often appeals to diagrams or tables in other works. So that's a reconstruction of what... (light laughter) I had to do it (laughs). I had to order cuttlefish when I went to Cyprus earlier this year in order to see what Aristotle was prodding. I then ate it. (light laughter) OK. But I think that this is what we're talking about in The Poetics. Aristotle's use of visual aids to anatomy and zoological science helped him arrive at his revolutionary defense of arts utility, and there are many examples of these creative intellectual movements in both directions, which I'm really writing about at the moment, where his experience as aesthetician, moralist, political theorist, or rhetorician, contributes to the formulation of an idea in the natural sciences. It works both ways. But the last one I selected illustrates the Aristotelian concept with which will be the focus of the remainder of this lecture, and it's the idea of dunamis, or potential within things. Dunamis within things, your potential, which you actualize in the process of reaching your telos, or final state. Growing into a fully developed human. In The Generation of Animals, Aristotle is explaining how the rule matter out of which a new animal is created, acquires its form. Now he incorrectly thinks that matter is provided by female menstrual blood inside the mother's body, and that the potential form is somehow chiseled onto it by male semen, but, where he is really right, is that he says that the movement which allows the matter to achieve that potential, that sort of activity, the movement, doesn't take effect immediately. It imparts the potential to the matter, but it is no longer in direct contact with it at a much later moment often, depending on the length of gestation, and all the rest of it, when the potential is actualized. Semen contains within it the movement which will set in motion by the mover, so the dad. The motion can move something else, which moves something else, and eventually you'll get a new animal, maybe a human, depending. OK. So we've got this idea of a delayed potential taking form. Semen contains within it the movement set in motion by the mover, and that motion can move something else, which can move something else, which can move something else, and he says, this is what he says. "This is like the miraculous automatic puppets, "for while it rests, "their parts somehow have the potentiality, "dunamis, "to move potentially." So a puppet of some kind that isn't moving still has the potential to be moved. "For while it rests, "their parts have the dunamis to move potentially. "When something external moves, "the first bit, "then the next part comes to be in actuality." So Aristotle concludes that semen can provide the impetus for something to come to be long after the moment it originally came into contact with the matter, right? There's a delay. Aristotle also sees the material as already being designed by nature to develop in specific ways in animals, where conception takes only a single instance, form only contributes a final, determining momentum to those pre-programmed materials, which will subsequently self-actualize. He further clarifies this puppet parts' potentiality analogy in the next section. "As the parts of the animal to be formed are present "potentially in the matter, "once the principle of movement has been applied, "one thing follows on the other, "without interruption "just as it does in the miraculous automatic puppets." Now what I think he's got in mind here is illustrated in the influential treatise on the canonical problems attributed to him, or to the Pythagorean Archytas, but more likely compiled by an early peripatetic student of Aristotle. Now this wonderful treatise describes amongst other things gadgets, which use friction gears. Wheels that can transmit movement to other gears, edge to edge, that don't use interlocking teeth, like a cuckoo clock, but they can just do it by friction. You can have any number of these wheels, so I could set a wheel moving here and provided it was in close contact with another one, and another one. So, right on the other side of the campus, we could ultimately get something moving as a result. In the mechanical problems, we gathered this is used for objects dedicated in temples, with which craftsmen aim to astonish the viewer, so you've got like a statue of Apollo popping out of the doors of the Delphic Oracle, when somebody right on the other side of Delphi is underground moving a wheel. So rational science is being used, actually to feed superstition in that particular way. I'm not elaborating, but that's what he's got in mind. It's like that delayed relayed movement, so Aristotle is experiencing his everyday world, I imagine as a little boy sitting in some temple, watching these things, and then when he comes to try and think about how what we call DNA works. Right? Things are pre-programmed and you just need the moment of conception from them to be set in motion. It's this trans-disciplinary thinking, and in fact, that text, The Generation of Animals, is fundamental to the relationship between Aristotle's philosophy and his biology. Sophia O'Connell shows that biology has tended to be treated as rather secondary, most philosophers have said that the real Aristotle is philosophical, and they object to a methodology, which begins with the investigation of issues raised by biological texts, and even their attempts to integrate them with better known aspects of Aristotle's work. Some start with the promise that insights into the really important thought of Aristotle, which is assumed to be philosophical can be gleaned from his biology. Others speak of reciprocal influence between the two types of text, but our Sophia O'Connell argues this is still to separate the two. It's anachronistic ultimately since it's a modern distinction between scientific and philosophical pursuits which Aristotle just didn't have. Her study is very funny. It reveals how philosophers have seen in Aristotle's Biology a rather embarrassing by-product of a honeymoon spent on Lesbos, and in the case of The Generation of Animals, a tendency to relegate biology to some embarrassingly unphilosophical corner of his mental life becomes particularly acute. She quotes, "The Lagoon at Pyrrha on Lesbos was a scene "of much of Aristotle's research into marine biology. "One can imagine those of his evenings "not spent with his new bride "were filled with thoughts of the philosophical "implications of observations made and collected." So why couldn't your bride be helping him dissect a cuttlefish? Anyway. That is a problem, but her fundamental conclusion is The Generation of Animals in its central concept of potentiality, showed that Aristotle himself, neither regarded the study of living things to be separate from philosophical speculation, nor did he expect to settle metaphysical issues by only employing abstract arguments. He just didn't do that. Aristotle used the idea of potentiality and its actualization in works ranging from Ethics, Physics, Metaphysics, to the Soul, the Psyche. Dunamis means the possibilities inherent in a thing, which may or may not be actualized. "Some potentialities are inevitably actualized "and nothing will stop them. "Others need conditions to be right. "If the entity in question is a rationally capable one, "for example, a human. "It needs to be absolutely...," and he says this in circumstances appropriate to the potency, the dunamis, the potentiality. "And in a condition, which admits being acted on, "You've got to get the circumstances right." In moral philosophy, I was very distressed, because I think this biology is extraordinary, that all these humans have got this intellectual potential. The idea has been virtually monopolized by Catholic moral philosophers, who use the idea to argue that embryos should never be aborted, because they possess, potentially, the attributes they will later possess in developed form, in actuality. That's where Aristotle is cited. Potentiality became locked forever into the vocabulary of the abortion wars in 1973, when the U.S. Supreme Court made some abortions legal, in its landmark decision, Roe versus Wade. It ruled... This is the wording. "That the state has an important and legitimate interest "in protecting the potentiality of human life "from the 24th week of pregnancy." Now I'm not sitting 'round here taking sides on that, but potentiality has subsequently been discussed in relationship to the moral status of the unborn child by bioethicists, philosophers, theologians, both those who oppose abortion, and those, many of whom are, of course, openly feminist, arguing for women's right-to-choose whether to continue a pregnancy. That is where Aristotle's unbelievably revolutionary idea of human dunamis has been locked. Now intellectuals on both sides of the debate who carry dunamis in their conceptual tool kits are called upon to comment publicly on subjects such as abortion, cloning, contraception, in vitro fertilizations, stem cell research and the like, and their expertise is germane where potentiality is invoked to make moral claims about bodies, but surely, the potentiality principle has a far more `edifying` potential. Sorry. Catholic moral philosophers have, I think, turned potentiality on its head. They use ideas about potentiality to flow into fertilty, pregnancy, and gestation, rather than, I think, Aristotle imagined out from them to what a human can become as a developed adult intellect. I think he'd have been baffled by the rest of the field in which this extraordinary idea is invoked. Since for him the central issue was the development of the rational solo intellect, for which the embryo wars have no room at all. So, a rather long conclusion, but it is the conclusion, you'll be relieved to hear. Potentiality surely is relevant to more than embryology. Potentiality is inherently political because it can be used to formulate, activate, or resist particular imagined futures. Humans who've been born also have potentiality, and they traveled much further along the road to development of their rational intellect than embryos under 23 weeks old. If we embrace Aristotle's dunamis, and one of the contexts he found it most fascinating, intellectual potentiality, we remember that it may or may not be actualized, depending on whether the circumstances are right. Moreover, it's not going to be identical in type or quantity in every human. Humans, as a species, undoubtedly, share certain kinds of potential; he'd've agreed with that, but he saw different categories of human, as possessing different kinds or levels. For example, children, by which he means boys, are not yet capable of rational deliberation, but are fully endowed with the potential. Women's capacity for deliberation lacks an essential ingredient, this would be the ability to steer itself, and remains underdeveloped. Slaves don't possess it at all. Now while these statements seem shocking to us today, they do show him assessing the relative uneven and differentiated intellectual endowments are different sets of human, and we can be sure that he maintained individual humans also have different potentials. Indeed, in Generation of Animals, we see him trying to work out how much is given each embryo by an individual father, which makes the potential human individuated from other humans, so your dad's genetic make-up, and how much is simply the "homo sapiens" species code. He wrestles with that. Now Aristotle has recently been recuperated, as belonging to the category of Utopian thinker, because his work on ethics and politics assumes that creating circumstances, in which humans can flourish and be happy, is the goal of human life. He also, famously, `envisaged` a world where machines could take over most manual labor, thus freeing humans to devote themselves to the contemplative life and the pursuit of happiness. That's a very famous passage which Karl Marx was very interested in. The human race today, despite all our machines and robots, is still not remotely exploiting its own intellectual potential. Many billions on the planet are not put in a situation where their mental dunamis is actualized by education. The ecological and political challenges facing the human race have never been worse, and it's surely our responsibility as professional thinkers to address our intellectual energies to finding solutions to those problems. So, Aristotle is a role model for all of us, in that he saw eudaemonia as a universal objective, and that the project is a collective one, requiring associations between individuals, families, and the wider community. He even found language into express a prototype of the modern idea of the smart mob, a group which, rather than behaving in the loutish manner, often associated with crowds, draws on universally distributed intelligence to behave efficiently. The idea that Howard Rheingold wrote about in Smart Mobs in 2003, is about collective intelligence and we saw earlier how Aristotle insisted in his Poetics that all humans, not just trained philosophers enjoy learning. Everybody can enjoy learning, even at different levels. And that passage-- It's actually been very, very important in feminist history, because even in the 17th century, people arguing for women's education, cited that passage, like Buss or Macon, who was the greatest English campaigner for schooling for girls, cited that passage, because it does not confine pleasure in learning to men. It's inspired knowledge-hungry women, well, actually all the way from Christine to Piers Ann, and Aristotle certainly formulated an ancestor of the idea of collective intelligence in his Politics 3. "It's possible that the many, "though not individually particularly good men, "when they come together may be better, "just as..." I love this. "...public dinners, which many contribute, "are better than one supplied at one man's cost. "For where there are many, "each individual, it may be argued, "has some portion of virtue and wisdom. "When they come together, "just as the multitude becomes a single man "with many feet and many hands and many senses, "so it becomes one personality, "as regards the moral and intellectual faculties. "This is why the general public..." I love this! "... is a better judge of the works of music "and those of the poets "because different men judge a different part "of the performance, "and all of them, all of it." Very anti-elitist, really. Now if I were to place one phrase from Aristotle's own oeuvre on his tomb, wherever it may be, it would be: "We have the dunamis theoreticae, "the potential to theorize about the world. "We all have the dunamis theoreticae." And he, of course, provides us with how you treat a clever child, or any child at all. He received the right support for the actualization of his `prodigious` intellectual `endowment`. Northern Greece had long produced important scientific and philosophical thinkers, including Democritus and Pythagoras. Medicine had been practiced to a high level there, since long before Aristotle's father trained as a physician. As he grew to adulthood, he had contact with the Macedonian court, to which the kings invited the most innovative, inventive scientists, shipwrights, military experts, and artists in the world, known world. He studied with the best philosopher of his day at the Academy in Athens. In Lesbos, he lived beside the lagoon and talked to Theophrastus, who actually had great local expertise, he's a Lesbian, as a native of that island. Aristotle remained in close contact with Alexander's armies as they went eastward, probably receiving regular reports of natural and social phenomena from his great-grand nephew Calisthenes, who actually went on Alexander's campaign. Aristotle... I love this, when I really started thinking through it. ... compared political systems from more direct experience than most people. He'd lived under democracy at Athens, under monarchy, with Hermias the Tyrant, in Lesbos, probably, under oligarchy, and after Alexander's conquest, seen a larger empire than ever before come into the hands of just one man. He knew whereof he spoke. Now did Aristotle ever regret the waste of human intellectual potential, in a world where most people's dunamis is never fully actualized? 'Cause I certainly do. We don't know. If he wrote a treatise on education, it hasn't survived. What we have of his views is scattered in his ethical, political, and rhetorical works, in particular the eighth book of his politics. Now most of this unfinished book is devoted to the precise curriculum, which should be offered to upper class boys, but despite the elitist focus, he sounds intensely modern. He opens with his famous dictum, "None will doubt that the legislator should direct "his attention, above all, "to the education of youth. "The neglect of education does harm "to the constitution." He means education at all levels, from small children through to young adults. He believes it to be of such fundamental importance to the flourishing of the community under any form of constitution that it must be public. We cannot let this be taken over by private interest. Since the end of the city-state as a whole, is to ensure its citizens live the good life, it's manifest, he says, that education should be one and the same for all, that it should be public and not private, not as present where everyone looks after his own children separately and gives them separate instructions of sort, which he thinks best. The training and things which are of common interest, the koinea, should be the same for all. Neither must we suppose that any of the citizens belongs to himself, they belong to the state, they are a part of the state, the care of each part is inseparable from the care of the whole, so all our young people, I think, on the planet, should be getting, somehow, something quite similar, in basic education. The training and things which are of common interest, in our own society, this would surely include those socio-political and environmental problems, which are becoming so urgent, and they should be basically the same for all, so that all can understand the issues and engage in fruitful dialogue with their fellow citizens over them. Oh. I will go back to that. Oh, dear, that doesn't work. That was a great Aristotle, in that movie. Universal education, in the things which concern everyone, would mean maximizing, and I think, the possibility of saving the human race, all those brains out there we're not using, and we don't train. All that intellectual talent which is randomly distributed in populations. We are not maximizing the possibility of finding individuals with the relevant dunamis to come up with solutions to save us. And by failing to identify and actualize human intellectual potential, we are actually placing shackles on our ankles at the starting line of our race against time. And how much wasted mental potential is out there, is very painfully brought home to me at the end of last year in Britain. A report compiled for the government uncovered the appalling statistic that 37% of British working adults say their job is completely pointless. 37% say it's completely pointless, about another 37% say it's pretty pointless. (light laughter) And one of the phrases used was, "Does it make a meaningful contribution to the world?" No. I mean, I find that really shocking, because, you know, even making coffee as a barista is making a useful contribution to the world. I want to know what the jobs are. You know, people need a cup of coffee. There's a very, very basic level that people know when their time is being completely wasted and it was often used as torture in medieval times, the wheels with nothing in them that you told. I really am nearly done out. As academics, it is our responsibility to avoid committing a crime of omission. We need to take the initiative and argue for an education for the global village, which covers the things which are in the common interest, and I conclude, cornily enough, not with Aristotle, because I really mean it, with Doctor Martin Luther King, Junior. So on 7th of January, 1968, a few weeks before he was murdered, he delivered a sermon at Ebenezer Baptist church in Atlanta, and it was entitled, "What are your New Year Resolutions?" And he said, "I said to my children. "'I'm going to work and do everything I can do "to see you get a good education. "I don't ever want you to forget "there are millions of God's children "who will not and can not get a good education. "I don't want you feeling you are any better than "they are. "For you will never be what you ought to be "until they are what they ought to be.'" So I don't think any of us in here is actually fulfilling our own dunamis unless we're trying to make sure that everybody else can, and I think that's pure Aristotle. It's pure Aristotle. We can't fully achieve the actualization of our own Aristotelian dunamis academicians, until we make part of our work, ensuring that everyone else on the planet is given the education and the support that allows them to fulfill their theoretic potential as well. So, in Britain, I've tried to do work a lot with the state school system in proactive campaigning for less parochial and more interdisciplinary school and curricula because we will never be fully what we ought to be until they are what they ought to be, and I do think that is fundamentally Aristotle's position. Thank you. (applause) - [Rush] Thank you, some of Edith, for inspiring and challenging, and wonderful talk. I'm illustrating the potential for people to ask questions, but if you want to ask questions, you have to come to one of the microphones. OK, so don't just shout out. You can line up, just like the Board of Supervisors, and, are you ready? I don't have a question. I'm just illustrating how one asks a question. (light laughter) - Thank you, Rush. - [Rush] I'll do more than illustrate. I'll ask something. Edith, that was just stunning, and I was so moved by the dynamism of your talk, especially at the end, so my question is rather dull. It has to do with the cuttlefish. (Edith laughs) Help me understand how or what Aristotle was really doing with the, why we like to look at corpses and ugly little animals and how that fits with a larger question. Pardon me for the banality of the question, because there's so many deeper, more interesting things you've raised, but I thought I'd just start with that. - OK. So, Aristotle is got to come up with-- I think he's identified the really most challenging argument of Platocrates, that this is a false world, the world that we represent in the arts. The world we're in is somehow a lower base and material, not as good as the ideal one, but then rap's so like Ion, or painters or tragedians come along and they do a simulacrum of a simulacrum and so it's just inherently about things that's false. Yeah? So, that's the most difficult argument to counter, because the catharsis is very good on the idea of the arts stirs up your emotions in an unmanly way, so he's got that one on that one, but on mimetic falsehood, that's a really big deal, and I think he's simply realizes that he spent, long before he has figured out the Poetics, which we know from some of the plays that he mentions that it can't be one of his earliest works at all. He's very much reacting to 4th century tragedy. He suddenly gets it. The diagrams from which he's taught students what a cuttlefish is, even though some of them threw up, when they were faced with a real cuttlefish. Yeah? It's just like what happened when you watch suffering in a tragic theater. So, tragedy is a diagram of a cuttlefish. Tragedy is to art what the diagram of the cuttlefish is to learning science. Yeah? And that is that trans-disciplinary thing that completely blows my mind. It's absolutely brilliant, so he doesn't do what most of us, unfortunately been trained to do, which is only work on one side of the fence. So, you can look. The catharsis is more difficult because then people go off on whether or not they had dissection of human cadavers, at this time, and so on. I don't think you need to go as far as that at all. You can simply go down to the Sterepokilae in Athens and take a pictures of the battles of Troy and Amazons, and people killing each other. Finding a picture of a dead body that isn't completely disgusting is not such a challenge. Who knows? Maybe they have got diagrams. We don't know how the Hippocratics learned-- We haven't got the exact same equipment, but we do know that he had a diagram of a cuttlefish. That's why I'm bringing that one in here, and he does say in his Zoologies, "Look how it's good to learn from this. "I draw that you learnt from the real thing, "but you can learn with pleasure." He uses the same language, so I think that we probably need to re-read the Poetics. People like Josh have been looking at the political theory from a biologist standpoint. I think us literary people need to go read all the biology and zoology and then come back to the Poetics and I think a lot more will fall into place if we see tragedies is the equivalent of a cuttlefish. Does this help? - [Rush] Yes, absolutely. I think part of the deal is that it's the diagram. - Yeah. - [Rush] I mean, the fact is, that it's not the thing itself. - No. - [Rush] And somehow the fact is, I can see it, but I don't vomit. - Exactly. - [Rush] And there we are. - And we can learn about it. It might be better to go and look at the real thing to do the learning, you know? I'm going to learn about exactly what violent raping means. If I see someone being violently raped, but maybe I'd rather go and watch Sophocles Tiresias. - [Rush] So there's a real aesthetic distance in that. I mean, basically. - [Edith] Yeah. It's a brilliant argument for art. It's just fundamentally pedagogical, in a pleasurable way. - [Voiceover] Forgive a potentially ignorant question from the opposite side of the divide, and thank you for mentioning Frege and Russell, but Russell's take on Aristotle, and I am ignorant about this, was very different from yours. In particular, his example was he claimed that women had fewer teeth than men, because he had never asked Mrs. Aristotle to lean over. - I have an answer to that one. - [Voiceover] Thank you. - Sorry. Is that what your question? OK. You lose a tooth with every child you breastfeed. You genuinely do. I have had two crowns. I've had two children. So, he looked in his wife's mouth... - [Voiceover] Thank you. (laughter) Did not cover that one. Thank you. - Why not? I'm sure he checked it empirically. Counted his own. (laughter) - [Voiceover] Thank you. - [Voiceover] Thank you. So this is a sort of just a framing question. What you've given us, is, I think, a beautiful depiction of Aristotle as the kind of stand-alone genius, which we agree. He's in a class by himself, but to what extent is Aristotle and especially the idea of potential, of dunamis, only made possible because of a culture in which he emerged. So, on the one hand, you could imagine for example, Thucydides is very interested in dunamis as a concept. Now I'm not trying to make it one-to-one. Aristotle read Thucydides, there he got the idea, but it's a society-- It's a culture in which this idea of trying to abstract from what's actually happening in the world, like an actual war where people are off killing each other now, and the possibility that makes that war or that special kind of war possible. So Athens has a certain new way of forming itself. I think for Thucydides that creates the potential for a level of conflict that the world had never seen before, so he's very interested in not just the way power is being used in actuality, but how do you create the potential for it, and then just more broadly, Aristotle lives in a world in which-- although only a tiny percentage of the actual human potential is being used, it's still a bigger tiny percentage than most societies that he could imagine, so that he has the possibility of becoming a philosopher instead of being a, probably, very good, but maybe not terrific physician. So, to what extent should we think that Aristotle is a spectacular result of a society that had, in fact, made that spectacular result possible? - Well, I see two questions there. One is absolutely, just in terms of where does his idea of potentiality come from? I think he does use it in a new way, and I think he does think about all organisms as being the position in time, where they're changing in a new dialectical way, but the ideas from Thucydides of human nature, without God. We discuss how human history develops without God in it at all, yeah? And of probability. I think it's those two huge Thucydides actualized what was potentially the Greek language and thinking about those two in a way, that clearly, they're very, very close, in lots of ways. I've often wondered about Thucydides hanging out in Thrace and what that meant, time-wise, but you do wonder. Does that answer... - [Voiceover] Yeah, once again... - The dialectic of individual genius and it's a fundamental difference between French and British Marxism. It's humanism and anti-humanism, so all French Marxists used to say, "Everybody's just a product of the material environment "and their brain is just a set of neural responses, "and nobody's sort of any brighter than anyone else." The English Left tradition, out of which I come, has always said, "Well, actually, we think individuals can make a difference, "and it's sort of the interaction of them," but what I really just believe is that individuals can be utterly wrecked, if they're not put in the right opportunities, and I just liked the fact that Aristotle, his own life embodies how you give as much advantage as you can to somebody with egregious intellectual talent, but there probably were another 20 Aristotles out there. Does that... - [Voiceover] Yeah, yeah. That's great, thank you. - I think he was an exceptional person. I mean, a lot of people don't like him. I like reading him, and when I read-- When you read On the Soul, where he's just trying to figure out the difference between random memories and sustained acts of recollection-- You just think you're talking to someone in the next room. It's just to have a description of what it's like in this society's head, like that. It's the most blindingly immediate culture I have ever had, with antiquity, actually. Just him sitting there, saying, "What am I doing when I'm remembering?" - [Rush] Well, Edith, we can't thank you enough for this extraordinary talk, and it would be a great, great crime of omission, if we did not give Edith Hall a round of Stanford applause. (applause) - [Voiceover] This program is brought to you by the Stanford Humanities Center. For more information, please visit us at shc.stanford.edu. For more, please visit us at Stanford.edu. 