https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-Kj2rg58QA
52:57

```
bare  
spiritual    adj. 精神的，心灵的；宗教的；（人）高尚的，不为物欲所动的
carve    
spouse  
stern  
adorable     adj. 可爱的；可敬重的，值得崇拜的
worship  
incense    
overwhelming  
aquarium  
pragmatic    
distract    
retreat     n. 撤退；休息寓所  
indulge     v. 沉湎，沉溺；纵容，迁就；满足（情感、兴趣、欲望等）；参加，参与（尤指违法活动）
fatigue  
leash    
slumber     n. 睡眠；麻木状态；静止状态
frantically     adv. 紧张忙乱地；发狂似地，情绪失控地  
cruise  
bliss        n. 极乐；天赐的福
amass    
berate       vt. 严责；申斥
fabulous      
upright    
rejuvenate   vt. 使年轻；使更新；使恢复精神；使复原    
panacea      n. 灵丹妙药；万能药  
confine      n. （尤指某个地方限制行动自由的）边界；（尤指学科或活动领域的）范围；限制  
succumb      vi. 屈服；死；被压垮  
precious     adj. 宝贵的，珍贵的；珍视的，重要的；珍稀的，珍奇的；<非正式>（表示气愤）宝贝似的；（言行）矫揉造作的，过分讲究的；<美，非正式>可爱的，讨人喜欢的
blow  
freak    
meditate  
span  
clue  
nasty  
instruct    
prospect     n. 前途；预期；景色  vi. 勘探，找矿  
gloss  
congruent    adj. 适合的，一致的；全等的；和谐的  
badge        n. 徽章；证章；标记
pediatrician   n. 儿科医生（paediatrician 的美式拼写）
illusion       n. 错觉，幻觉；幻想，错误的观念
obsess    
grumpy 
```

Parenting in the Present Moment | Carla Naumburg | Talks at Google

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

CARLA NAUMBURG: My name is Carla Naumburg. I'm a clinical social worker, and a writer, and a mother of two young kids. And I wrote this book called "Parenting in the Present Moment." So today we're going to talk a little bit about mindful parenting. And the plan is that I'm going to talk for 30 to 40 minutes, and then I'd love to answer any questions. And we can have a discussion about some of the stuff I've written in the book. I believe there's another talk happening in this room when I'm done. So if you'd like me to sign your book, I think there's some books for sale down there. And then we can go outside, and I'm happy to sign it just to let the next talk come on in. So whenever I start talking about parenting, my favorite thing to talk about, and think about, and do is sleep. So I always start with a little passage about sleep from the book. I'm going to do a little reading from the book today and a little talking. "So I'm lucky enough to be a fairly good sleeper, or at least I was before I had kids, which is fortunate, because I need a lot of sleep to function. One or two nights without my full eight hours and I become a grumpy, dysfunctional red hot button just asking to be pushed. I knew this about myself long before I became a mother, and I was terrified about what was going to happen to me once my first child was born. It's not surprising, then, that I spend most of my first pregnancy obsessed with sleep, not just my own but also my baby's. Sleep is the `panacea` of parenthood, the altar at which all exhausted parents worship. And I must have read seven or eight books about how to get a baby to sleep through the night, four words that became my constant prayer through the first weeks of my daughter's life before I even gave birth. So every sleep expert has different advice, of course, but one thing became abundantly clear to me, I had to figure out how to get this kid to sleep. By the time our daughter was born, my husband and I had acquired a crib without a drop side, of course, a firm mattress that fit precisely in the crib to avoid the risk of the baby getting stuck between the mattress and the bars, a co-sleeper for next to our bed, a pack and play for traveling, a vibrating bouncy chair for nap time, a swing in case the baby didn't like the bouncy chair, a standing fan for her bedroom-- we'd read an article somewhere that those reduce the risk of SIDS-- a white noise machine in case the fan wasn't loud enough, light blocking shades for the windows, a space heater so we could perfectly regulate the temperature of her room, a baby monitor, and special sleep sacks that should be used instead of blankets. We congratulated ourselves on not succumbing to the video monitor. We weren't going to be those parents. By the time my daughter was born, I was an expert in sleep training and sleep safety who had never actually put a baby to sleep. And I had all the knowledge and gear to prove it. The first few weeks of life with a newborn were rough to be sure, with long, exhausting days and hourly wakings every night. But when she was six weeks old, our daughter slept through the night. Eight hours of uninterrupted slumber filled bliss. It was heavenly. It was lifesaving, and it had nothing to do with me and all of my obsessive reading and buying. As I would come to learn over the next weeks, months, and years, my daughter is a sleeper. She's a shockingly picky eater and potty training was no walk in the park. But that kid can sleep." So I always start out talking about this, because I think my approach to sleep really characterized my first couple of years as a mother. I was constantly researching and thinking about and worrying about every possible thing that could happen to my child or my family and then deciding I needed to understand it and fix it. And this was all before I even knew it was going to be a problem for us, so spending all my time sort of running around, putting out fires before they were even burning. And a part of this is because of who I am. I'm an anxious person. I like to be on top of things. I like to have information and solve problems. Part of this, I think, is a natural outcome of being a parent in the age of social media and constant information. Because every day there's a new article on the "Huffington Post" about the latest study, about the latest thing that's going to screw up your kid if you don't fix it right away. And I bought into all of it hook, line, and sinker. The thing about trying to solve every problem even if it's not actually a problem is that you get worn out. And you get exhausted. And you get overwhelmed. And you get stressed out. And all those things happened to me. And so I took it out on my kids. Why? Well, because honestly they were the people I was with the most. And if we're also going to be really honest, little kids as adorable, and lovely, and sweet as they can be, are super annoying sometimes. Even when they're doing the developmental stuff they're supposed to be doing, it's hard. Any parent can tell you this. So what happened was I started yelling at them. Now, I wasn't much of a yeller before I became a mother. But the stress was too much, and I was taking it out on them. Now, I knew that I wasn't alone in this. Our parenting generation, we're a bunch of yellers. I remember really understanding this the first time when I read an article in "The New York Times" a couple years ago that said, we are generation of devoted parents. We buy the organic food, and we get them the perfectly carved wooden little blocks. And we make sure we're at their soccer games. And we do all this stuff. We're constantly praising them. We're so devoted to them. But man, we yell at them. And so I read this article. It made me feel a little bit better that I wasn't alone. I wasn't the only one. But I also knew how I felt when I lost my temper with my kids. And I saw how it was impacting them. And I knew it wasn't good for our relationship. So I decided that I needed to put a stop to it. And I remember when that happened. It was one night. It was a really bad night. I had blown up at them, and I finally just put them in front of the TV. I thought, you know, them watching TV is much better than me yelling at them. And then I sort of silently berated myself for being that parent who couldn't parent as well as a TV could. And then I sat down at Google-- yes, Google-- typed into the search bar, "How do I stop yelling at my kids?" Literally, I typed those words. Now here I am, a social worker. I have devoted my entire professional career to understanding people, and human development, and relationships, and how to manage our emotions, and how to recognize them, and what to do with them when they become overwhelming. And in that moment, in the fog, and fatigue, and exhaustion of parenthood, I literally couldn't solve this problem. So I turned to Google. And there were thousands of articles, and lists, and blog posts, and suggestions about what to do when you want to stop yelling. And some of them were really good. Take a few deep breaths. Do some jumping jacks. Go for a walk around the block. My favorite one-- scream into the toilet. I remember reading that one and being like, I deal with poop all day long, and you want me to go scream into the toilet? No. But nonetheless, I made my own little list of suggestions, hung it on the wall, and decided I'm going to do this. I'm not going to yell at my kids. I'm going to take my deep breaths. I'm going to stretch, whatever it is. Well, you all know how this turned out, right? Within a day or two, I lost it with them. I felt horrible. By the time I remembered to do my little list, it was done. I already had my mommy tantrum. It's pretty frustrating. But, you know, I'm stubborn. I wasn't going to give up. But this time I decide I'm going to turn to the academic literature. I'm an academic. I understand how this stuff works. When I need real answers, I'm going to turn to the heavy-hitters, and I know I can think my way out of this problem. So I start reading all these studies related to parent behavior and child discipline, all this stuff, whatever. And at the bottom of every single one of them-- you know how they always have that section that says "suggestions for future research"? They all said something along the lines of, this parent could probably benefit from mindfulness and meditation. So I want to read you a short passage from the book about just how I felt about that idea. "There was no way I was going to meditate-- absolutely not. I tried meditation once before in college in hopes of scoring an easy PE credit required for graduation. I will never forget sitting on that hardwood floor in the middle of a stinky gymnasium. A tall, thin man dressed all in white with a long wispy beard instructed us to cross our legs, close our eyes, breathe deeply, and clear our minds. I crossed my legs, and it all went downhill from there. Clear my mind? What did that mean? I didn't really understand how I was supposed to clear my mind, so I decided to think about black. Because black-- there's nothing in black. So if you think about black, clearly your mind is clear. But then I thought about it. You know, I visualized black. But then I thought, well, black isn't really my favorite color. I like blue a lot better. But I can't decide if I like turquoise or sapphire, and the next thing I knew, my mind was anything but clear. And then within minutes, all I could think about was how much my butt hurt and my nose itched. So in my mind, meditation was for hippies who didn't have their shit together. And mindfulness was just a fancy word for reformed hippies who barely had their shit together. I was happy to spend an hour each week in the confines of the therapy office, but meditation was an entirely different proposition. It was just one step away from shaving my head and handing out flowers at the airport. I was a type-A, take control, get things done kind of girl, and there was no way I was going to spend my precious parenting time chanting and lighting `incense` sticks." So as you can tell, I had a lot judgments and misconceptions about mindfulness and meditation. And I was just not educated. I had no idea. But the thing is, it wasn't getting better. I didn't know how to change the problem. I didn't know what to do. And these ideas kept sort of popping up in my life. People were suggesting them to me. And finally, I thought, all right. I'm going to figure out what this is all about. So I signed up for an eight-week mindfulness-based stress reduction course, also called MBSR. I'm sure many of you have heard of it. This is a curriculum that was originally developed by Jon Kabat-Zinn in the late 1970s. He was working at the University of Massachusetts out in Worcester, Mass. And it's an exploration of mindfulness, and meditation, and basic yoga. And when Jon Kabat-Zinn created this, he did two really brilliant things. He's really a pioneer in bringing all of these practices and all this wisdom to the West. The first thing he did was he really stripped it of any religious or spiritual background, language. He took all that stuff out. Because he understood that a lot of folks in the West would really struggle with that stuff, because he was coming from a Buddhist background. And he took all that language out. The practices were very similar, though. The next thing he did was he started gathering data. So when every new group of folks would come in, in the beginning, most of them were struggling with chronic pain. And he was using mindfulness and meditation to help them deal with this. He would gather some data. He'd take some baseline surveys of how they were doing, how their pain was, and then they'd go through this eight-week course, and then he'd get some more data. And over time, he really amassed an amazing body of information about how effective mindfulness and meditation can be. And so now when you go on the "Huffington Post" and you see an article that says, "mindfulness cures psoriasis," it's because they put a bunch of people through an eight-week MBSR course and got some data. So I started going to these classes. And what I found is that everything I had thought I knew about mindfulness and meditation was completely wrong. It is actually an incredibly pragmatic, and clear, and useful, and skillful way to approach life and parenting. And so I want to read you-- well, first I want to talk to you about what my experience was. And what I noticed is that when I was meditating, which I started doing at home, much to my own surprise, I was a lot less reactive with my kids. I would get less angry with them. I would get less frustrated. I was more patient. I felt less of a need to micromanage everything they were doing. And I didn't really understand that connection at first, but I saw that it was happening. And that red hot glowing button I sort of mentioned at the beginning with the sleep, if I was like this glowing button that was really super sensitive, and bright, and red, and angry all the time, when I was meditating, that button got a little smaller and a little less sensitive. It wasn't that it went away completely, but I was a lot calmer. And I remember the first time I really noticed a difference. And I want to read that to you here. "So I still remember the first time I attempted to practice mindfulness in response to my own yelling. I wasn't able to stop my tantrum before it started, but I tried a different approach after it happened. I went into the kitchen, which was my standard retreat from a difficult parenting moment. And instead of scouring the cabinets for a handful of chocolate to shove in my mouth, I put my hands on the counter and took a few deep breaths. Almost immediately, the dam of guilty thoughts burst open. 'I'm a terrible mother. I can't believe I lost my temper again. The poor girls look so scared and I just kept yelling.' And then for the first time, I realized what I was doing, and I stopped. I just stopped. I remembered what my MBSR instructor had said. 'Our thoughts are just thoughts. They're not reality, and we don't have to treat them as though they are. We can choose how much to engage with them or not. We can let them go.' The idea of my thoughts were nothing more than cars I could either choose to get into and cruise around in for a while or rides I could pass up on was a revolutionary perspective for me. My years of social work training had drilled into me the importance of our thoughts. They were the essence of who we are, or so I had been taught, and they needed to be explored, and weighed, and considered, and understood, and struggled with. Well, I had done all of that, and it had been useful to a point. So in that moment, I tried something different. I let those thoughts go, and I tried to implement what I was learning about kindness, and compassion, and curiosity. 'OK,' I thought to myself, 'you yelled your kids. It's happened. It's over. What are you going to do now? What do they need? What do you need? What can you do differently?' I don't remember how I answered myself. Maybe I was hungry, or stressed, or the girls were over tired, or getting sick. Maybe I took some deep breaths and offered to read them some books or let them watch a show so I could have a break. What I do remember is how I felt. Before when I would freak out and then berate myself for losing it, I felt stuck, and helpless, and terrible. My mood worsen, and I just couldn't get myself into a better space no matter how hard I tried. More often than not, I would unleash that terrible mood all over the girls all over again. But this time, when I tried to pay attention to how I was feeling, when I tried to be nice to myself, and interested in what happened, my experience was completely different. I felt like I could breathe. I felt like I could take a moment to see what was going on and get some clarity on the situation. I felt like I had options and could go back to my daughters, not only with a much better attitude, but with a willingness to reconnect with them." So you may notice in that scenario I don't actually remember what I did, like what my intervention was with my kids. And this is an important point about mindfulness and mindful parenting. It's not about what we do specifically. But there is an assumption, an underlying assumption, that when we can take a moment, pay attention to what's happening for ourselves and our kids, we're going to make a more effective and empathic choice in parenting, whatever that is for us. And this is important because mindful parenting is often confused with theories like attachment parenting. And attachment parenting is a specific parenting theory that talks a lot about how and where your child should sleep, and how you carry them, and how you feed them. That's not what I'm talking about today. I'm talking about sort of the head space that we are in and how changing that perspective can positively impact the way we interact with our children. So I've thrown around this word "mindfulness" a lot, and I want to take a minute to actually define it. And there's a definition I really like, which is sort of a hybrid of Jon Kabat-Zinn's work and Amy Saltzman's work. Dr. Amy Saltzman is a physician and a teacher, and she's right around the corner in Palo Alto. And so the definition I like is about choosing to pay attention to the present moment with kindness and curiosity so we can then choose our next behavior. So that's a lot. And we're going to tear it apart a little bit. The first part is about choosing to pay attention, making a choice of what we want to focus on. Because most of us, I would argue, spend most of our day following our attention around. It sort of gets dragged from place to place by our smartphone that's glowing or buzzing, or by a kid that's screaming, or by a dinner that's burning, or an urgent email that's coming in, and all of a sudden we have to attend to this. And then we have to attend to that. And it's not often enough that we say, this is what I'm going to focus on right now, making an intentional choice to direct our attention. So choice is really important. The next piece is about paying attention. We use these words all the time including in parenting. I am constantly telling my girls, please pay attention. But I'm not sure I ever stop to tell them what that means. That's a big concept. There are some big ideas in there. And I never really sat down and said, here's what it means to pay attention. You face the thing you want to pay attention to. Maybe you look at it. You make a choice to listen to it. Maybe you're smelling it or touching it. And when you notice your thoughts wander, you bring them back to the thing you're focusing on. I don't think I've ever said that to them until very recently. And we just assume that our kids know what it means when we say, pay attention. So paying attention is the next piece, so choosing to pay attention. Present moment, let's talk about this. If you ask most people what mindfulness it is, they will say, it's living in the present moment, which sort of conjures these scenes of like being on a beach and frolicking in the waves or something. That's lovely. It's great. It's not what I'm talking about here. What I'm talking about is making a choice to pay attention to what's happening right here in the here are now. Now in this moment, in this room, maybe it's the thoughts in my head, the sound of my voice, looking at all of you, worrying if I'm in the camera or not, all of these things. There are a couple reasons why this is important. But the most important one is the present moment is where the action is. It's the only place where we can affect change, where we can make a different choice. The past already happened. That's done. Nothing we can do about that. And we can spend as much time as we want planning for the future, but you never know what's going to happen. So the present moment, that's where the power is. That's where the energy is. That's where we can do something. The bummer is our brains are terrible at being in the present moment. They don't want to do it. They want to remember the past, and they want to plan for the future and everything in between. Here's the best explanation I found for why that is. A bazillion years ago, those of us who could remember that when Uncle Joe wandered into the cave and even got eaten by a saber tooth tiger, and then could make a plan to not go in that cave, we're much more likely to survive and reproduce than those of us who were just sort of wandering around, and they smell something good coming out of the cave. And they wander in the cave, and they're done. So this ability to remember the past and make a plan for the future served us very well. It still serves us really well today, because if you can remember that your child has a nut allergy and make a plan to bring a nut-free cupcake to a birthday party, you have avoided both an allergic reaction and a nasty tantrum. So that's great. The problem is our brains aren't very good at turning that off. And so we are constantly remembering, and regretting, and worrying, and wishing, and hoping, and planning, and then we miss what's happening right in front of us. A really common example of this in my house is when I ask my kids to put their shoes on in the morning. Any of you who have children with feet who wear shoes on a regular basis will know that this is no simple thing. It's so easy. It never happens that way. So I will say to my kids, please go put your shoes on. And then I go in the kitchen, and I'm finishing up their lunches, getting us out the door. And then about half the time I yell around the corner, put your shoes on! Now I have not bothered to peek around the corner to see if they are putting their shoes on. We live in a tiny house. It's not like I have to walk over to the other wing. I literally have to go like that. But I don't do it. Because I'm already decided based on past experience and my worries about the future, they're clearly not putting their shoes on. But the thing is, about half the time, they actually are. And so what happens is then they yell at me, we are putting out shoes on! And then I yell back at them, don't yell at me! And yes, the irony of yelling at my kids not to yell at me is not lost on me. But this is where we are sometimes. And so in that moment, if I had literally taken two seconds to come back to the present moment, to look at my children, we could have avoided not only a really unpleasant interaction, but also avoided this dynamic where they know mom's going to yell at them again, so they don't have to listen to me the first time. And I would argue that much of parenting would be so much easier if we could take the two seconds to literally look at our kids and tune into them, which is a hard thing to do. It shouldn't be, but it is. All right, so we're choosing to pay attention to the present moment with kindness and curiosity. The other word that Jon Kabat-Zinn uses for this perspective is nonjudgmental, because most of the time what happens when we tune into the present moment is we want it to be different. If it's bad, we want it to stop or get better. If it's boring, we want it to get more interesting. And if it's good, we want it to last longer. This is what we do. It is so rare that we say, ah, this is great. I'm good. I'm just good. Because then all of a sudden, I'm like, actually, I'm a little cold. It's a little cold in here. And I don't know. The seats are kind of distracting, because there's no pattern to the red and blue that really bothers-- you know, the mind just goes on and on and on. People don't like being alone in their thoughts. There was actually a recent study, I believe it was out of Massachusetts, maybe it was somewhere else, where they gave people choice. They could either sit alone with their thoughts, or they could give themselves a painful shock. Most of the time people wanted to shock themselves instead of being alone with their thoughts, because we don't like our thoughts. We want them to change. We want them to be different. It's so challenging for us to approach them with kindness and curiosity. And so, an example of how this really comes into play with parenting, is when I'm trying to teach my daughter to ride a bike. I have decided that my kids have to be able to ride a bike if they have any chance of being happy and successful in life. Because clearly if you can't ride a bike, I might as well give up on parenting. There's just no point. I don't know how. I'm worried about this. I'm anxious. This is a thing. So we take our kids out to ride bikes. And my daughter says, you know, Mommy, I really want you to hold onto the handle bar. Walk alongside me. Hold onto the handlebar. I'm like, no, she's never going to learn how to ride a bike if I do that. She's got the training wheels on there. She'll be fine. This is ridiculous. I'm not doing it. And then she's like, please hold unto the handlebars! No, you can ride. You're not going to fall. If you fall, it'll be fine. You're like two feet off the ground. It's fine. You'll be fine. So what happens? She flips out and gets off the bike. And we are no closer to learning how to ride a bike. But when I can get interested, and curious, and accepting of her experience, and say, all right, this is my kid is right now-- she needs me to hold onto the handlebar-- we go down the street a few times. And then she says, I'm good, Mom. Take your hand off. And we're a whole lot closer. But that means I have to notice and let go of all those worries and fears swimming around in my brain and get interested and accepting of her experience. That's hard. So the kindness and curiosity is a big thing. Now, it's not only about being kind to our kids. It's about being kind to ourselves. And if you remember back to my little scene in the kitchen, after I yelled at my kids, the first thing I did, my natural reaction, was to berate myself and get angry with myself. So what happens when we do that is we get stuck. How many of you have ever sort of really felt horrible and ashamed or embarrassed and then been like, well, that was great. I feel super energized to go make a change now. It doesn't happen that way. When we're in a place of shame and embarrassment, we feel stuck, and we can't make a different move. We can't make a different choice. We just keep reenacting the same dysfunctional patterns that we always have. When we can be kind to ourself and forgiving and accepting, that empowers us to do something different. And there's some great research coming out of Texas and Massachusetts looking at self-compassion and how that really actually helps people make a different choice, make healthier choices, sort of behavior in ways that are more `congruent` with who they want to be. All right, so the kindness and curiosity. And all this leads up to the pot of gold at the end of the parenting rainbow, which is making a different choice about how we want to behave next. That's the point of all this. Because like 99% of parenting is about how we respond to our children. But most of the time, we're not responding, we're reacting. Kid does X, I do Y. Kid does something good, I kiss or tell her I'm proud of her. I love you. Kid does something bad, I bite her head off. This is not how I want to parent my kids. But the more we do it, the more likely we are to do it. Because we're creatures of habit more, and the more we practice something, the better we get at it, even if it's something we don't really want to be practicing at all. But when we can approach the present moment where we can make a change, and we can do it with kindness and curiosity that frees us to do something different, we're much more likely to respond to our kids the way we want to, whatever that may be for you and your family. All right, so that's the sort of mindfulness piece. And so mindfulness is really about this internal experience of paying attention in a specific way. But when we're talking about mindful parenting, it's not just about paying attention to ourselves. It's about paying attention to our kids. We're in this relationship. So the question is, what should we be paying attention to in addition to our thoughts? Well, I would argue that you really need to pay attention to what your kids are eating, super important that they have a healthy diet but also a healthy relationship with food, so they don't end up with an eating disorder. Also it's really important to make sure your kids get on a sports team, because they need to know how to interact with other people. They need to know how to follow directions, listen to what the coach says, play with other people. But you don't want them playing too many sports, because they need down time. They need quiet time to be with their thoughts, learn how to be bored. Because if your kids can't be bored, it's going to be a big problem because life is so boring sometimes. You should probably make sure they learn a language too, because the research on language development in your brain, I mean, it's just fantastic. And we're like this global economy. They've got to be-- I mean, they're just not going to function if they can't speak another language. Along those lines, they need to play an instrument. I mean, just really-- again, the brain development piece, they have to be able to play an instrument. I mean, you guys know where I'm going with this. The list goes on and on. And if you do research on what you should be teaching your kids, quit your jobs now. Hire a staff. Because you will need them. The underlying message behind all of these, like your kid needs to do x or y, is that if you do this, they will grow up to be healthy, productive, successful adults. And if you don't, their lives will be terrible. I don't buy any of it. I don't buy any of it. We don't know. I mean, my dad stuck me in piano lessons. I hated it. I can't play. I still don't know what a chord is. You never know. Maybe you want to expose your kids to these things or if something works for your kid, that's great. But I'm going to tell you-- and the research is very clear-- that the single most effective choice we can make in doing our best to set our kids on a path for resiliency, happiness, success, productivity, insert your word of choice there, is to have a healthy, resilient, engaged relationship with our kids. That is the best chance we have. Now, I'm not going to stand here and tell you that if you do that, your kid will be fine. Parenting, and child development, and human development is far too complex to make an if/then statement like that. But it's the best chance we have. It sounds so easy, and it's so hard. Not only do we not get to pick our kids temperaments-- it's not like we get to date kids, and be like, oh, you're too quiet. You're too loud. Ehh, doesn't work for me. You poop too much. I can't do that. You get the kid you get. And as I've read in "Pinkalicious" far too many times, you get what you get and you don't get upset, except for when you get really upset. Then you start breathing, and it gets better. But the other thing that's really hard about kids is if you think about it, within the span of an hour, we are their friends, their cheerleaders, their chefs, their jailers, their best friends, their coaches, their teachers, their chauffeurs, their disciplinarians. It is exhausting. And in the midst of all this, they have the nerve to keep growing and changing and figuring things out, and we can't keep up with that. It's really hard. Layer on top of that, we all come from different cultures, different religions, different personal styles, different family structures. So all of these ideas that people throw out there at you about how to have healthy relationship, it's hard to know what the answer is. I've got a few ideas. Of course I do, I wrote a book. People with books have ideas. And so the three main chapters in my book that are sort of the bulk of this perspective, the first one is about staying connected. This is about our relationship with our kids. And I think the basics of this is that your children need to feel safe. And this is something that many parenting books gloss over, because they assume that if you have the money to buy a parenting book and read a parenting book, the worst problem you have is time out. How do you do it? Do you do it at all? It's not true. We know that millions of American kids don't feel safe at home. So I'm going to leave it at that. But if you have questions about safety, if you want to talk about it, find me on Facebook. We'll talk about it. Safe, seen-- our kids need to feel seen by us. They need to know that we know who they are, and we love them and accept them for it. This is the work of a lifetime, and most of us will never get there. But that doesn't mean we stop trying. Safe, seen, soothed-- OK, I'm running through these, I know I am. But there's more in the book, and we can talk about it later. Soothe-- our kids need to know how to manage big emotions. Most of us don't know how to manage big emotions, which is why we drink too much. We eat too much. We shop too much. We gamble too much. We yell too much. So to the extent that we can start teaching our kids about this right now, that's a big deal. And I have some ideas in the book about how to do that. And the last one is supported. And when I talk about supporting our kids, I mean supporting them as opposed to controlling them or micromanaging them. Again, this is a very hard thing to do. Because when your kid spills the beads across the wooden floor for the eighth time in a day, all you want to do is grab the necklace and say, I'll make it for you. But that's not what they need. So safe, seen, soothed, and supported-- I like my little s's. It helps you remember things. So the first part of this mindful parenting business is about staying connected to our kids. But as I've said time and again, it's hard. So we need to stay grounded. We need to take care of ourselves. Most parenting books gloss over this with the sleep when the baby sleeps. That's the self-care piece they give you. So if your kid's not a baby, I'm sorry. We have no advice for you. Just give it up. Also, if your kid sleeps in the car like mine did, and you're driving, and you cannot sleep when the baby sleeps, you're probably screwed. No, no, I go into this in a lot more detail. And what I talk about in this is self-awareness, getting to know ourselves and understanding ourselves. And one of the things I learned about myself when I became a parent is I need a huge amount of alone time and downtime during a day in order to be able interact kindly with my children. And so I started writing, because I needed to be alone. And now I can be in a much better place with my kids. That's an example of the self-awareness piece. Self-compassion we've talked about. Self-care-- here's the one thing I'm going to say about self-care. In a lot of places in this country, self-care gets confused with self-improvement. So when you have a chunk of free time, you are out training for marathon. You're making a quilt for your child. You are making cupcakes. You're learning a new skill. Now, if those things nourish and rejuvenate you, that's great. Go do them. But if you're doing them out of a sense of compulsion, and you'd rather actually be staring at the wall, go stare at the wall. Take care of yourself. You wouldn't say to your kid if they're feeling sick and exhausted, quick, let's go do some math homework! That will make you feel so much better. You'd say, why don't you lay on the couch, and I'll bring you a blanket and your favorite toy, and I'll read you a story. Well, what if we did that for ourselves when we're worn out. Go lay on the couch. Wrap yourself in a blanket. Read a good book, whatever it is for you. So we really need to reexamine our definition of self-care. And finally, again, support-- we can't do this alone. It is not possible to raise a child alone. And yet, so many mothers in my generation where this as like a badge of pride. Oh, my kid was puking all weekend, and my husband was out of town. But it's fine. I got it. It's like, no. Let your friend bring you some soup. Because then they know that when they need that, you're going to do it for them. And one of the things that happens with support is most of us go into parenthood assuming that all the friendships and relationships we had before are going to support us after we become a parent. And it's not necessarily true. Relationships change. And then all of a sudden, the people in your life, it's like a random coworker, or this person on your street, maybe it's the pediatrician you happen to get assigned to at the practice-- and we just run with it because we're too tired and overwhelmed to make a change. But we need to make a conscious choice and think about, are the people in my life who are supporting me actually supporting me? And do I need to find a parenting support group? Do I need to seek out some new friendships? What do I need to do? All right, so if staying connected with our kids and staying grounded are two sides of a scale that we're constantly trying to get balanced but it never quite works, staying present, which is my last big chapter, is the solid grounding keeps that scale upright. This is the mindfulness piece. It is crucial to all of this. None of it works without the mindfulness. Because let's say you decide you're going to take your kids to the aquarium for the day. You're going to have this great day. You're going to connect with them. And then you spend the whole time stressing about a fight you had with your partner, how you're going to pay the rent this month. You're going to come out of it, and your kids aren't going to feel any more connected to you. You're not going to feel any more connected to them. You're just going to be stressed out. So don't even waste the money on the aquarium in the first place. Just stay home and stress out there. It's a lot cheaper. And same thing with your staying grounded, your self-care-- in my town, everybody goes to get pedicures. This is like the thing you do. I finally discovered after like five pedicures that I don't like strangers touching my feet. And I was like, oh, maybe I won't do that. But I would go to these pedicures, and I'd be on my phone, making my to-do list for all the things I was going to get done as soon as the pedicure was over. And then I'd be like, oh, the birthday party, what are we going to do about that? And I haven't really planned summer camp and all of these things. And then I'd come out there as wired and wound up as when I went in. I didn't feel any better. And then I had the stranger touching my feet. It was like a total waste of time. So when you can be in the present moment, even if it's for like two minutes several times a day, it's going relax you, help you feel more calm, soothed, controlled, on top of things. Here's the hard part about mindfulness-- I can't give you a pill for this. There's no like perfect secret trick, like do this and it'll be done. You'll be like this mindful awesome person. And mindfulness is actually very easy to do. It's very hard to remember to do. So the trick with staying present is to try to create a structure in your life that's going to make it easier for you to remember to do this, which is why when you go away on a meditation retreat, it's like this beautiful building. And it's very uncluttered and clean. And there's like the Buddha smiling at you. There's always a field. They always find a beautiful field to stare at. Because they know that you're going to have an easier, better time at this retreat if you're not staring at a pile of dirty laundry the whole time. But most of us can't go away on retreat all the time. This is not a possibility. So what can we do in our lives? We can slow down. And there's no trick to slowing down. You just have to decide it's something you want to do, and see if you can add in five minutes here, five minutes there, or decide it doesn't really-- you're not going to fight with your kid over their clothes, because it's not worth the time. And if they really want to wear pajamas to school, they're going to wear pajamas to school, whatever it is. But are there ways that you can slow down? Because one of the things I've noticed about myself as a parent is I just start hurrying even when I'm no tin a rush. It's like, come on. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. And we have plenty of time. Why am I doing that? I have no idea. And then I have to be like, slow down. Simplifying your life makes it much easier to slow down and be mindful. And the best example I have is sippy cups. These are going to the death of me. For a long time, we had like eight different types of sippy cups. And of course, my girls are like I want the Lalaloopsy. I want the Hello Kitty. And the Lalaloopsy takes a straw. And the Hello Kitty needs a valve. And I'm raahh, freaking out, because I can't find the right top for the right cup. And then one day-- it took me like three years to get to this stroke of brilliance-- I was like no. We're going to have one kind of sippy cup with one kind of top. And you get what you get. And then my girls know it's Hello Kitty or nothing. That's not so bad. She's cute. So all of a sudden, that whole piece of stress wasn't there. So simplifying is a great idea. Savoring-- this is a big word in the mindfulness world. What does this mean? It means being fully in the moment with all of our senses and truly appreciating it. Now what happens when there's a cute moment for most of us? We pull out our phones, because we've got take a picture of it, because it's so cute. We've got to capture it. And then you look at it, and the colors aren't quite right. OK, I'm going to put it on Instagram. I'm going to put a filter on it, because that's going to look really good. And then you send it over to Facebook. And then you're on Facebook. And oh my gosh! My friend had a baby. That's adorable. And then you're like clicking through. And it's like the dancing cats. And I'm a sucker for dancing cats, so I have to watch that video. And then I've totally missed the moment. It is gone because I had to take a picture of it. And so when I think about savoring, I think about taking a picture with my mind. And the idea, the memory I have of this is one morning, I'm sitting there drinking my coffee. I look over at my kids, and they're playing with stickers on the couch. And my first thought was like, (FRANTICALLY) oh my god! They got stickers on the couch. They're going to get the stickers all over the couch! I'm not going to get the stickers off the couch! And then I thought about it for a minute. It's a shitty IKEA coach. What do I care? We can change the slip cover. It's like $50. But nonetheless, I was like, OK, I'm going to let them play with the stickers. And then I just sat there. And I was like, I have a hot cup of coffee. The sun is shining in the window. My kids are sharing their stickers. None of the stickers have been torn, so nobody's flipping out. It was like a little commercial for a happy family. And I just sat there and noticed it. And it was lovely. And three years later, I remember that moment. And we've had a million of those moments that I don't remember because I rushed through them. That's what savoring is all right. So we have slowing down, simplifying, savoring, and my favorite-- this is my S word. I'm sure somebody else came up with it, but I did to-- single-tasking. So we are a nation of multitaskers. How many job descriptions have we all read where it's like, multitasking a plus! This is a good thing. OK, so what we know from the research is we are actually not capable of multitasking. The word they use this task switching now. So what that means is we're doing one thing, and then we're like watching "Law &amp; Order," and then I'm cutting the carrots. And so I'm like, what happened to the murdered guy? And then I'm going to cut the carrots. And then my kid comes in. And she's flipping out, so I'm going to fix that problem. And then I'm going to cut the carrots. And I'm so proud of myself, because I'm this super productive person who can do all these things. And then I cut my finger. And then the carrots are on the floor, and I never hear the end of the "Law &amp; Order" episode, and it's not on Netflix so I can't see it. And my kid's problem never gets resolved. It didn't actually work, but I'm also multitasking-- no. We can't do it. What we know is that our brains jump back and forth. We never focus on one thing fully. And then we need a few seconds in between to readjust to the new thing, so it's super ineffective. And it's super inefficient. And it's really not that possible to be mindful when you're multitasking. So trying to do one thing at a time is a great idea. So we have staying connected to our kids, staying grounded, and staying present. And whenever I give this talk, the question I always get is, how do I get started? And there are a bunch of different ways, recommendations I have. Because me standing up here and saying to you, just go be mindful, it's cool, just do it, is kind of like saying to your kid, just go out on that soccer field during that championship game, kick the winning goal when you have never practiced a day in your life. And that's what I did to myself that day when I sat down and Googled, how do I stop yelling? Trying to be mindful when your kid is exploding right in front of you, making a serious behavioral change in your own experience during a time of crisis, is not possible if you haven't been practicing all along. So the trick with mindfulness is you've got to start when it's easy. Because as Karen Maezen Miller, who is an amazing Zen Buddhist priest and a mindfulness teacher and a mother, says, life is suffering enough. Don't make it worse with your mindfulness practice. I'm paraphrasing her. So start when it's easy. So what I like to do, there are two different things. One is my informal mindfulness practice. I pick a couple times during the day when I'm doing something I enjoy, that I know I'm going to be doing every day, and I make a point to pay attention to it. So this is when I'm in the shower, because what happens when I'm in the shower is I get to the end of the shower, my hair is wet. I have no idea if I washed it, not a clue. So I've started paying attention. And what I find is that taking a shower is this awesome experience. I have hot water. That's a great thing. And I can get clean and not stink. This is also a very great thing. So I pay attention to my shower. And then I pay attention to reading to my kids. We do it every night. Because the mind is an amazing, amazing thing. I could sit there next to my kids, read the entire storybook to them, get to the end of it, and I have no idea what happened, not a clue. How my mind can read the words, say them out loud, and not hear a single one of them is beyond me. But it does. It happens all the time. So I've noticed that when I actually pay attention to the storybook, children's literature today is amazing. The pictures are fantastic. The stories are good. And if they're not, the book disappears. And when I'm sitting there with my kids on either side of me, like snuggled up, it's this beautiful moment. And we all feel a little calmer, and a little more connected, and a little happier at the end. So if you can find a couple of practices every day, that's something you're going to do every day that you enjoy, pay attention to it. Within about 30 seconds, your mind is going to wander. And when you notice your mind wandering-- that's what Sharon Salzberg calls the magic moment, because it's the moment you can choose to do something different. You choose to let go of that thought, whatever it is, come back to your experience. The other one is formal meditation. If informal mindfulness, the paying attention in the shower, is like walking up the stairs to get a little more exercise or parking on the other side of the parking lot, formal meditation is like going to the gym. We're practicing paying attention. We're practicing being bored and being OK with it. Because guess what? Parenting is boring a lot, for any you who have ever played Chutes and Ladders-- boring, right? So we're practicing getting bored, being bored, and being OK with it. We're practicing noticing big emotions come across us and being OK with those, letting them go. We're practicing not getting hijacked by our own thoughts. So there are four traditional ways you can do this-- standing up, sitting down, laying down, or walking. If I lay down to meditate, I fell asleep and I miss pick up. Yes, that happened once. I am not hardcore enough to stand up. So I usually sit down. And when I just can't sit still, I walk. And what I do is I find my breath. I notice it. And if you all do this right now, just notice. Where do you feel your breath the most? Is it at the tip of your nose? Is it coming into your mouth? Is it your chest? Is it your belly? And then just keep noticing it. You don't have to change it. You don't have to count your breaths or breathe deeply. You just notice. And if you're anything like most of us, within about a breath, your mind will wander. And then you notice your mind wandering, and you come back to your breath. And you do it again, and again, and again. And what most people say is, I'm a terrible meditator, because I can't keep my mind on my breath. It's not about how many breaths you can keep it for. It's about how often you can notice that your mind has wandered and bring it back. When you're lifting weights, you don't expect to stand there for 20 minutes holding weights up in the air. You just keep lifting. With meditating, you just keep breathing and noticing. And over time, this will make it easier for you to not be such a big red hot button in reaction to your kids. And even if you feel like your meditation session was terrible, hang in there. See what happens in the heat of the moment. It makes a difference. So those are my thoughts on mindfulness and mindful parenting. It looks like we have a few minutes for questions, which I would be happy to answer. And thank you all for your time and your attention. [APPLAUSE] 

AUDIENCE: What you said is more about managing yourself than managing your kids. 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Yes. 

AUDIENCE: Which is quite insightful, and I love it. But is there any research showing the other way, that is, can kids be managed? Can kids be-- like, [INAUDIBLE] occasions you said that we all experience, that I just felt the kids were unreasonable, or not listening, or not doing what they should do, or having emotion, acting up, not doing what they're supposed to do. And also, the most frustrating thing is it's unreasonable. You don't know why they don't do what they're supposed to do. So is there any research showing that there's also a managing the kids side? 

CARLA NAUMBURG: So you're asking about the efficacy of mindfulness with children? Is that kind of what we're looking at? 

AUDIENCE: Not-- whatever methodology, but meaning essentially training the kids or educating the kids to be more cooperative. 

CARLA NAUMBURG: That's the golden question, if I had the answer to that-- 

AUDIENCE: So if they don't listen, other than I take a deep breath, I manage myself, is there any technique or any fact at all that [INAUDIBLE]. 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Yes. 

AUDIENCE: I keep on thinking, when I was a kid, I always listened to my parents-- the discipline or, of course, a different culture, that is, whether any discipline, any control of kids would be-- 

CARLA NAUMBURG: So questions about behavior management. 

AUDIENCE: Maybe that's just wishful thinking. Maybe you can't. 

CARLA NAUMBURG: No, I think there are some ideas. First of all, I don't want us to underestimate the power of managing ourselves. And they did a really interesting study with some folks where they took some parents who identified their children's having behavioral problems, whatever that is. And they put the parents through the eight-week MBSR course. This is not a parenting course. They did not talk about parenting. They taught the parents to meditate, practice mindfulness. And what they found coming back a year later is that those parents who stuck with it reported that their kid's behavior was significantly improved. So let's not underestimate that. Having said that, behavior management is a huge question. And there are as many experts with opinions as there are children with problems or children who are normal and don't have problems and still-- there's a whole range. And what I would say is, this is not going to be the answer you want to hear. It depends on your family. It depends on your child. It depends on who the parents are, who the teachers are, whoever's involved, and what works, and what you're comfortable with. Some people are comfortable with time outs, and that's effective. And some people just aren't. Some people are comfortable with redirection, and some people feel like that's not stern enough. I mean, there's a range of options. So I think that's sort of a bigger question. But there are certainly a lot of people with a lot of opinions about that one. But thank you. 

AUDIENCE: `As a prospective parent`, what would be the things that you think, other than preparing and practicing mindfulness and looking into things like your books, your talks, all those kind of stuff, are there any other avenues that are less specific to mindfulness that you'd recommend looking into? 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Getting ready to have a kid? Yes. I would suggest you spend time with people who have children. And the thing is, that's not really what you actually want to do when you're getting ready to have a kid, because you want to go out and live this child-free life, which you should also do. I would suggest you spend a lot of time trying to let go of the illusion of control, which is so easy to say and so hard to do. Here's the tricky thing-- looking back, I'm like, oh, I wish I had known this. I wish somebody had told me all of these things about how I would feel, and what I need to be doing, and the fact that kids will projectile vomit everywhere all the time. Like, I wish somebody had said to me, you need to prepare yourself to manage a lot of vomit. And the thing is, I'm sure they did. I'm sure they did. And I said, oh yeah, I'm good. I've got little brothers and sisters. I've got cousins. I am good. I'm good with this. And it's a thing that everybody has to go through, because every child is different. Here's what I would say-- get yourself a good support network. Find the people who are going to stick by you. And it's a little hard to know, because you never know how people are going to react when they become a grandparent, or an aunt and uncle, or when their best friend has a kid and they don't have a kid yet. You never really know, but just like the support network. And then the other thing, which I just heard yesterday at a talk I did, is if you get paternity leave, which I think here at Google they have a very generous paternity leave, take it. Take all of it. Take every last day of it-- not only because your wife, or spouse, or parenting partner, whoever, will love you and it will help your marriage immensely. But the research down the road on how it's going to impact your involvement in your child's life and the equity in the relationship in terms of child care is astounding. So take your paternity leave. And then just be prepared to be more tired than you've ever been in your life and know it'll get better. Does anybody else-- I'm sure there are parents in the room-- have any other advice? Because I know I'm missing something. My sister's here. She's like, yeah. I could a lot of advice. 

AUDIENCE: Thank you. That was an excellent talk. I'm actually in complete agreement with everything you said. 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Oh, thanks. 

AUDIENCE: But implementing some things I find challenging. So, for example, you mentioned taking care of yourself, which you think is important. But with the two young kids, and the heavy work schedules, and their individual schedules, do you have any helpful tips on how you can find time to take care of yourself? 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Yes, I do have some helpful tips. This is a great question. It's one that many of us struggle with. One, and this is, I think, more of an issue with moms than dads, is we have to let go the guilt about taking care of ourselves. We see it as like super `indulgent`, and it's not. It's basic self-care like breathing and eating. And we wouldn't say, it's cool. I'm taking care of a kid. I'm just not going to eat for the next three months. So don't do that with your self-care. The other thing I would say is we often assume that self-care takes hours at a time. It's like, I need an afternoon to go for a hike, or run, or play golf, or whatever it is. Often it's not that. It's 10 minutes. It's half an hour here and there. I will frequently arrive at pick up for my girls 10 minutes early and sit in the car and breathe. And that's all I can get in a day, and it makes a huge difference, as opposed to when I'm like checking my emails, and thinking about my to-do list, and then I run in. And all of a sudden, it feels like my kids are an intrusion on my life, because I'm right in the middle of trying to do something. So just giving yourself a little time to sort of switch, and then also figuring out what matters for you in terms of self-care. Like everybody's got advice. You have to be doing yoga. You have to be eating kale. I hate kale. I don't want to eat kale. But I need to be eating kale to take care of myself. Like, there's a laundry list a mile long of what people say you should be doing. And figuring out what actually works for you is important. So for me, it's sleep and really long walks alone, which I have to make time for. And I know I'm not as productive in my professional life because I go for a 45 minute long walk most days of the week. I'm lucky to have the flexibility. But I know I'm also less crazy with my kids. And that's a trade off I can, I'm lucky enough, and I'm willing to make. My vet, he goes and spends an hour on the trapeze every Friday. This is like my hell on earth. This sounds horrible. But it's what lets him parent effectively. So I think taking some time to figure out what is it that you need. And if you can't do it for an hour, can you do it for 10 minutes? But again, and the thing about little kids is, they get older, and it gets better. So now my kids are almost five and 6 and 1/2. And I can say, Mommy's going to go meditate in the other room for 20 minutes. Please, please leave me alone. And I would say four out of 10 times, they do it. And four out of 10 is so much better than zero out of 10, which is where I was for years. So it gets better, I promise. 

AUDIENCE: You are talking about just different strategies, like jumping jacks, screaming into the toilet, walks, deep breaths, pushing the wall-- is there anything else that you can recommend for when we're in the moment and the tantrum is right there? 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Yes. There are many, many strategies. And you can find them online. Literally just sit down and Google, how do I stop yelling at my kids. But the trick is, you have to notice that it's about to happen. And for some of us, that noticing is in our bodies. It's like they get tense. Our stomach gets all knotted up. The shoulders go up, whatever it is. Or it's the thoughts, like, oh my god. I'm so pissed off. This is horrible. It has to end, whatever it is. But if you don't notice it, you're not going to make the change. And if you don't practice noticing in the easy moments, you're not going to be able to notice in the hard moments. So I have to come back and say, again, the best thing you can do is start some sort of meditation and mindfulness. Because I don't want to say to you, just go notice when you're about to explode, because that is setting you up for failure, just like I did for myself. So really, if you could start practicing, even five minutes of meditation a day, you're going to get so much-- like you're literally strengthening those neural pathways in your brain. It's going to get so much better. 

AUDIENCE: Any advice on teaching children mindfulness or doing mindfulness activities together with them? 

CARLA NAUMBURG: That's fabulous, advice on teaching children mindfulness. I have a book coming out about this at the end of December. Thank you so much for that. It's called "Ready, Set, Breathe." It's going to be published by New Harbinger. And what I would say is the first step to teaching kids mindfulness is to practice it yourself and talk to them about it. They will get curious. There are also many excellent picture books for kids. So if you go on Amazon and just Google "mindfulness, meditation, picture book, kids," whatever it is, you will find great books that will start to introduce the concept to kids. So those are where I would start. But find me on Facebook. Shoot me an email, and I can send you some more stuff. FEMALE SPEAKER: Thank you so much. 

CARLA NAUMBURG: Thank you. [APPLAUSE] 