https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jT2iuQw7uSE

```
odds            n. （事物发生的）可能性，机会；困难，不利条件；投注赔率；（力量、权力或资源上的）优势
predominant     adj. 显着的，明显的；占主导地位的，占支配地位的
autocratic      adj. 专制的；独裁的，专横的
reign  
oppress  
fare              
accord  
uprising  
referendum      n. 公民投票，全民公决
flare           vt. 使闪耀；使张开；用发光信号发出；使外倾    
```

What Are the World’s Newest Countries

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Over the past two decades, the world has seen the birth of ten new countries. Some have evolved out of violence or political unrest, while others are the result of peaceful independence movements and diplomacy. So, what are some of the world’s youngest countries? Well, in Europe, the three newest countries are Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo. Just three decades ago, these were all part of one huge communist state, called Yugoslavia. Throughout much of the 20th century, Yugoslavia was ruled by Josip Broz Tito, whose autocratic reign kept the country’s ethnically diverse population and six self-governing republics unified. But upon Tito’s death in 1980, ethnic tensions flared, and one-by-one, these republics became sovereign states. Two of them, Serbia and Montenegro, united as a single nation in 1992. But the unified Serbia and Montenegro quickly ran into problems. Although Montenegro was much smaller than Serbia, its economy was stronger and proportionally, contributed more than Serbia. Montenegrin leaders thought that independence would further strengthen the economy, as well as boost tourism and provide a faster path into the European Union. So, with a 2006 referendum, Montenegro split from Serbia, forming two independent nations. Meanwhile, tensions ran high in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo. This self-governing region was once the center of Serbian culture and society. But over the course of several centuries, its population shifted toward predominantly Muslim ethnic Albanians, replacing the mostly Christian Serbs. In the 1990s Serbia’s newly-elected president attempted to “Serbianise” Kosovo, taking control of its media, public offices, and even its school curriculum. . Ethnic Albanians fought back, carrying out non-violent uprisings and, eventually, a major guerilla offensive against Serbian police and politicians. Serbian forces responded with a ruthless ethnic cleansing program. Despite a 1999 NATO-led peace accord, violence continued into the 21st century. Finally, in 2008, with US and EU support, Kosovo broke away from Serbia, forming its own country. But even younger than these post-communist states is South Sudan, which declared independence in 2011. Sudan and South Sudan had been at odds since Sudan originally formed in 1956. The conflict was due to a largely Christian and non-Muslim south feeling unrepresented and oppressed by the Arab and Muslim north. After more than fifty years of conflict, including two civil wars and an estimated two million Sudanese deaths, the north and south signed a peace deal, granting secession for the south. In a 2011 referendum, nearly 99 percent of South Sudanese voters chose independence, and the country quickly gained international acceptance as a sovereign state. However, South Sudan has since spiraled into a brutal civil war, widespread poverty, and an ongoing humanitarian crisis. So whether it be in Africa, Europe or elsewhere, the road to independence is almost never easy. Some countries, like Montenegro, have fared much better on their own. While others, like Kosovo, continue to struggle. Kosovo is still far from accession to the EU and is now one of the poorest countries in Europe. So, while going it alone may seem like the logical escape from ethnic violence and political instability, autonomy is often its own beast. We can’t do videos like this without help from our sponsors. This episode is brought to you by Squarespace. They’ll help you build a website even if you’ve never done it before! When you sign up for a year, they’ll give you a domain name for free. And if you type in TestTube at checkout, you’ll get an extra 10% off. Squarespace… you should. So how exactly did these young countries come to be? How do you even create a new nation? Check out our video to learn more. Thanks for watching! Subscribe so you don’t forget to check out new videos from us every day. 