https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7h8Eb4g6zk

1:12:53

```
discrete        adj. 离散的，不连续的
concession      n. 让步，妥协；特许权；<英>优惠价，减价；商铺；小摊卖的东西；认输
dumb            adj. 哑的，不能说话的；一时说不出话的，不肯开口的；<非正式>愚蠢的；（计算机终端）简易的
odds            n. （事物发生的）可能性，机会；困难，不利条件；投注赔率；（力量、权力或资源上的）优势  
dilute          v. 稀释，冲淡；削弱，降低；稀释股权；使（颜色）变淡，褪（色）；以一定比例的非熟练工替代（熟练工）
blunder         v. 跌跌撞撞地走，摸索；犯愚蠢的错误，出漏子；误入，不小心陷入（困境）
justifiable     adj. 情有可原的，无可非议的
overwhelming    adj. 难以抗拒的，令人不知所措的；巨大的，压倒性的
humane          adj. 人道的，仁慈的；（学科分支）人文的，高尚的
inhumane        adj. 残忍的；无人情味的
provision       n. 规定；条款；准备；[经] 供应品
bogus           adj. 假的；伪造的
incentive       n. 动机；刺激  
collateral      n. 抵押品，担保品；旁系亲属 adj. 附属的；旁系的；并行的    
affection       n. 喜爱，关爱；爱恋，爱慕之情；精神状况，感情；疾患，病；影响
obscure         adj. 难以说清楚的，模糊的；鲜为人知的，默默无闻的；未被查实的，不确定的；费解的，晦涩的
attorney        n. 律师；代理人
dispute         n. 争论，辩论，纠纷  
juvenile        adj. 青少年的，未成年的；少年犯的；幼稚的，孩子气的；（鸟或动物）幼年的
epidemic        n. 流行病，传染病；（迅速的）盛行，蔓延
brag            v. 吹牛，自夸
apportion       vt. 分配，分派；分摊      
pending         adj. 未决定的；行将发生的  
accuse          v. 控告，指责  
revoke          vt. 撤回，取消；废除
bureau          n. 局，处，科；办事处，办公室；五斗橱，衣柜；书桌
loot            v. （尤指在战争或暴乱中）抢劫，掠夺
council         n. 委员会，理事会；政务委员会，地方议会；会议；（教会的）集会
affinity        n. 密切关系；吸引力；姻亲关系；类同
circuit         n. 电路，回路；巡回活动，巡回地；环道，环线；巡回赛；赛车道；（英国）巡回审判区，巡回上诉法院；（一套）体操动作；统一经营的连锁剧院（或影院）
fright          n. 惊骇，恐怖，惊吓；恐怖的经历；<旧>不整洁的人，奇怪、丑陋的东西
implication     n. 可能的影响（或作用、结果）；含意，暗指；牵连，涉及
probation       n. 试用；缓刑；查验
endanger        v. 使处于险境，危及
segregate       v. （尤指因种族、性别、宗教不同而）使隔离，使分开；实行种族隔离；（使）分开，分离；（成对的等位基因）分离
entry           n. 进入，加入；出场，莅临；门，入口；进入权，进入许可；参赛；参赛作品，竞赛答题；参赛人数，报名人数；登记，录入；条目，账目，记录
mayhem          n. 骚乱，混乱；故意伤害罪，重伤罪；蓄意破坏
facility        n. 设施，设备；卫生间；天赋，才能；（机器等的）特别装置，（服务等的）特色；（用作某种用途的）区，大楼
booth           n. 电话亭，投票间；售货棚，摊位；岗亭；（隔开的）小间
blunt           adj. 钝的，不锋利的；直言不讳的，说话生硬的
subtle          adj. 不易察觉的，微妙的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；灵活的，巧妙的；含蓄的，隐晦的；<古>狡猾的
perpetuate      v. 使持续，使长久（尤指不好的事物）
reverse         v. 颠倒；撤销；反转；交换；放弃立场；倒车；打对方付费的电话；（使铅字、图案）印成白或浅色    
dilemma         n. （进退两难的）窘境，困境；二难推理，两刀论法    
constitute      v. 组成，构成；是，被视为；成立，设立；任命
consequent      adj. 随之发生的，由此引起的；（河流，山谷）顺向的
entitle         v. 给予（某人）权利，给（某人）资格；给......命名，给......题名
petition        n. 请愿；请愿书；祈求；[法] 诉状
confidential    adj. 机密的，保密的；（言谈举止）神秘的，隐秘的；受信任的，委以机密的
fortuitous      adj. 偶然的，意外的；幸运的
counsel         n. 忠告，建议；辩护律师；<古>咨询，磋商
aggravate       v. 使加重，使恶化；惹怒，激怒
exclaim         v. 呼喊，惊叫，大声说
grope           v. 摸索；摸索着走；探索，努力寻求；猥亵，乱摸  
foregoing       adj. 前述的；前面的；在前的
bump            v. （使身体部位等）碰上，撞上；（无意地）碰，撞；颠簸行进；拖拽；挤出，挤掉；改变（广播或电视节目的时间）
```

Who suffers when a country locks up 1% of its adult population? - Peter Wagner

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - 

Try to do this. OK, there we go. Good evening and welcome to the Marian Minor Cook Athenaeum. My name is Michael Grouskay, and I am one of this year's Ath Fellows. The United States currently `incarcerates` over 2.2 million people, more than any other country, and just under one quarter of the world's total prison population. The United States is also a world leader in incarcerated population per capita with an incarceration rate of approximately .7%. The consequences of America's `affinity` for incarceration, while sometimes intuitive, can also be surprising in their complexity. Tonight's speaker, Peter Wagner, is an expert on prison policy and has helped to `shed light` on some of the most interesting and problematic consequences of mass incarceration. Mr. Wagner is an attorney and the Executive Director of the Prison Policy Initiative, which he co-founded in 2001 in an effort to spark a national discussion about the collateral effects of mass incarceration. His transformational report Importing Constituents: Prisoner and Political Clout in New York launched a national movement to end prison gerrymandering. Mr. Wagner has also written extensively about the exploitative prison and jail telephone industry and the implementation of geography-based punishments. In recognition of his accomplishments, he is the `recipient` of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers', Champion of State Criminal Justice Reform Award, and the American `Constitution` Society's David Carliner Public Interest Award. In 2013, he received a J.D. from Western New England College School of Law. Peter Wagner's talk is a part of the Race and Law Enforcement in America series. As always, I must remind you that audio and visual recording is prohibited. Please welcome Peter Wagner to the Athenaeum. (audience applause) - 

Thank you very much for having me here today, and for coming to talk about mass incarceration. I have three goals for this talk. And I'm gonna try to keep this... I understand people typically talk for about 45 minutes. I'm gonna try to do this a little bit shorter so we can have more time to ask questions and have discussion. I think people would like that. So I have three goals. One is I want to give you a crash course in our mass incarceration "system," and I'm gonna use air `quotes` around the system word 'cause I'm gonna argue that we kinda don't really have one. And I wanna help you put all of this into context and give ya a taste of why thinking about a little bit broader than just one system would be advisable. I wanna talk a little bit about how our system has grown so powerful that it can reach out and punish people that are not even involved in the criminal justice system. And then, recognizing that a lot of my talk is gonna be a downer, I'm gonna talk very briefly throughout and then at the end and in the discussion about reasons for optimism and things that people can do. So first, for some context. The United States' incarceration rate is entirely out of comparison with its peers. You compare the portion of each country's population that is behind bars between the United States and all of the founding countries of NATO, and it's incomparable. The closest one is United Kingdom. Denmark, Netherlands I mean is 1/10 as much. Incarceration in this country is very different. Now, let's talk here about California. We did this report, we compared individual states to other countries. And while the good news is, is that California uses the prison less than this country does a whole. The bad news is that if California was an independent country, it would have the second highest rate of incarceration in the world, after the United States, and above a country that the State Department calls an authoritarian dictatorship with human right problems, Turkmanistan. And significantly higher than `Rowanda`, a country that is still dealing with the aftermath of a genocide that killed 800,000 people. So again, even on a state level incarceration is out of whack. And this is your standard incarceration rate, so it's a percentage of the population that's behind bars, looking at just state and federal prisons over time. And this is kind of your standard graph, and I wanna just kinda go through the history here very quickly for context and then talk about some better ways to look at this. Okay used to be relatively low, 'bout 100 per 100,000. It's much higher now, I don't know if my laser pointer works. Alright so little quick history call and response. It was relatively low when the data starts in 1925 and then it's going up in the 1930s a little bit because - [Audience] The Great Depression. - [Peter] Great Depression. Okay and then it starts to go down in 1939 because - [Audience] World war. - World War II. We find something else to do with our young men besides locking them up. And then it stays really kinda low, and then it's going down in the 60s. Alright, one guess why. A little bit Vietnam. My kind of theory, and this has not been ya know, fully academically tested, but anecdotally I got this, the people that were in charge of the criminal justice system in this period in the 1960s were World War II generation. The "we're all in it together, we take care of our brother." And they were saying that incarceration was not working, so why do it? People that were prison wardens at this time would do interviews and they'd be like, "You could let 95% of my people go tomorrow, "and society would be fine." This is at a time when comparatively, there weren't that many people in prison. So `wardens` were considering themselves prison abolitionists. And then, things start to go up in early 1970s. In a few states like New York, this is the war on drugs starting. But in most states this is the baby boom coming of age. Young people screw up more and make more mistakes, do things that are crime, so like this is actually, this first little bump is just demographics. When you control for... People in their low 20s, it's flat. 

But then, all of a sudden, like 1981, it starts to `spike` and go up. That's the war on drugs, that's the Reagan administration, and then the first Bush administration, and then the Clinton administration, and it's going up faster and faster and faster. This is a policy change. Crime was higher then than now, but this is not in any way correlated with crime. But what it is is in large effect, a response to the civil rights movement and an attempt to control people of color in the same way that Jim Crow did and that slavery did, except this was done through the crime system so that it could be nominally race neutral. Because that is when this period when we saw the racial disparity which always existed in prison, started to grow. So this is your standard graph that's in every criminal justice textbook. And this is both a great kind of big picture start but it obscures two really important things. One is it obscures who's in prison, and what's driving some of these changes, which I wanted to go a little bit deeper into my crash course on. And this is just California. This is the incarceration rate, so it controls for different population sizes. And we can see that African Americans are seven times as likely to be behind bars in California as white people are. Native Americans, more than two times, and Hispanics, almost two times as often as white people. So, incarceration in California and most states is about African Americans. 

And secondly, I wanna break this down. Talking about the national incarceration rate is kind of interesting from the historical way to talk about the 1930s and to blur the distinction between some states. But, we gotta talk about states. And so I broke down here the historical data for the three major types of correction facilities: the federal prison system, which quick it's the bottom line. Quick lesson, federal prison system in the big picture not that important. It gets a lot of attention, not a big deal. The top line is state prisons. Those are the policies of state governments. And then the middle line is local jails. Now, local policy is some `partially` set by states, partially set by individual county administrations. And there are about 3,300 counties in this country. So this is when I say like, "Do we have a criminal justice system?" not really cause we have 50 states doing their own thing, we got 3,300 counties largely doing their own thing. So fixing it requires a lot of different entry points. Although that said, they are all drinking some of the same Kool-Aid, there's a reason they all did things at about the same time, but some of the specific strategies are gonna get complicated really quickly. But what you gotta know is that while the local jails have their own kind of authority and some of their own ordinances, a lot of the people that are in local jails are there for violating state law. So it's local officials using their... Using their `discretion` in some different ways, but it's again, it's state law that's implicated here. So again, overwhelmingly this is about state policy not federal. And let's also be really clear that the states are different. So the big thick yellow line here is the same incarceration rate graph I showed you before for the entire country, but if you overlay the individual states, you say, "Oh wow." This graph just overlays five states cause it was too confusing when I did them all. You see like Louisiana, the top line has always used the prison more than other states and consistently so. You see Alabama is the same, almost as crazy as Louisiana. But then California was going up really fast and then leveled off and is then now dropping. New York was going up even faster and then dropped further and more consistently over a 15 year period. And then Minnesota, a state which always had the lowest incarceration rate in the country, and still does. However, you see it's not making any real reforms at all. They're just kind of in a status quo mode. This kinda matters cause states are going in different directions for different reasons, and some of the big drop you see, almost all of that drop in the overall US incarceration rate is from California. So California, New York, and New Jersey, the three of those together are almost all of it. A lot of the especially small states, are still adding to their prison population in ways that really matter. So, it's really important to drill down to the state level. And to do the kind of painful but hopefully helpful kind of big picture view, this is data visualization that we made called Mass Incarceration: The Whole Pie. It's showing all the people who are locked up on a given night, what kind of facility they're in, that's the inner circle, and then why they're there by category and then detailed offense. And what you can see is like there's not that many people in federal prisons. Most people are in state prison, in the blue on the left. And almost a third of people are in local jails. Their time there is short, they don't stay very long. People go to jail either because they're convicted and they're serving a very short sentence or they were just arrested yesterday and they haven't been before a judge yet, or they've been before the judge and the judge said, "You need to get $10,000 bail or you can't go home," and the person doesn't have $10,000, but they're not there very long. But that's about 1/3 of the people who are in a cage on a given day are in a jail, and nobody talks about jails. And because they pass through so quickly, there's twelve million people go to jail `in a given year`. And again, nobody talks about jails, it drives me crazy. 

And... If we can break this down here, I don't know if people can see my laser pointer. So this whole portion is 450,000 people that are in jail on a given day who have not been convicted of anything yet. Only less than 200,000 have been convicted of a `misdemeanor`. So, these are people that are still, under the Constitution, assumed innocent. You know innocent until proven `guilty`. But yet, they're there because they can't come up with bail, which the median bail amount in this country is $10,000. We did an analysis of a kind of rare government survey that had this data. Of the people who are detained because they can't afford bail, their median income is such that $10,000 is eight months of their income, so of course bail is unaffordable for people. Because you ask unreasonable amounts of money from poor people, and of course they can't afford it, so then you lock them up, and then they lose their job, they lose their apartment, and you make life worse for them. And then at some point, they just have to plead guilty. There's two countries in the world that use this concept of cash bail for people accused of crimes, the United States and the Philippines. The rest of the world has long since stopped doing this. But what's new again about bail is... I really wanna bring up the idea it's not just that it's rare internationally, but that our tremendous reliance on bail is brand new. Just like in the incarceration graph, I'm tryin' to tell ya that like incarceration used to be relatively rare. So for your entire lives, incarceration has been high. Don't assume that it's always been like that and that it always has to be. I'm older than a lot of you, almost all of you, and like for my entire political life, incarceration has been very high, but in this lens of history, it used to be lower. It can be lower again, we have this option. So, I wanna do the same thing with bail. Okay, look at this. Virtually all, 99% of the growth in the population in jail in the last 15 years, is a growth in the number of people who are locked up before being convicted. This is the direct result of one of two things. Either changes in police practices and arresting more people for minor things where they don't get convicted, or arresting people who are actually innocent or whatever. And a change in bail practices, an increased reliance by local governments on bail instead of taking a promise to show up, on using bail. So that's the change. So actually, the number... The need to lock up people in jails is apparently for convicted, has apparently been flat for 15 years, but the real growth is in locking up people who are still legally innocent. Like that's important. And just to go a little deeper into my pie chart for a second, this graphs some detail about kids who are locked up. So this is not the 5,000 kids that are locked up with adults in adult facilities right now or the other we don't know how many kids who were sent to adult prison when they were 17, and are now 25, we don't... Actually nobody knows that number. This is the 34,000 kids who are in something that looks like a prison, but for kids on a given night. And like most of them are there for non-violent offenses, and 7,200 of them are there for things that aren't even crimes. 6,600 of them are for violating some technical violation of their parole. There's a beautiful article this morning in Mother Jones about girls in the criminal justice system, about profiling all these kids who are in jail, who are locked up because they didn't clean their room, cause they talked back to their mother. These were things that were conditions of their probation and the mom complains to the `probation` officer, the probation officer says, "is she cleanin' her room?" And the mom says, "No," and the probations say, "Alright, "well I'm gonna send her to prison now." Its like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, "why did I answer this question?" So that's 6,600 kids are locked up for things that are not a crime. 

And then there's a smaller group of what are called status offenses. These are things that are by definition not crimes for adults. So this is kids running away from home. This is kids staying out after `curfew`. There's 600 kids who are locked up on a given night for something that would not be a crime if they were an adult. They're essentially locked up for being kids. Like this is where society decides to spend its its financial capitol, its political capitol, its emotional capitol on damaging on a given night, 7200 kids for doing things that aren't even crimes. And that's not even talking about you know... `What was the real reason that this kid was involved in aggravated assault.` Or why do these kids involve in the drug trade, like or using drugs. Like that's not even leaving that. This is just like this basic base line. So if we zoom back out to the whole pie of mass incarceration, I have to unfortunately step another step back and tell you that it's more complicated than this. Because this is not the extent of our criminal justice system. This is the people that are in correctional facilities. Actually if you wanna include the other kinds of correctional control, there's 3.8 million people on probation. Some kind of alternative sentence where if you violate the rules of you can go to a cage, 3.8 million people. There's 820,000 people on a given day, who are on parole. They were in state or federal prison and they have a conditional release with these conditions on them. They can be brought back to prison at any time. So there's seven million people that are under the direct control on a given day of the correctional system. And, what I think this sets us up to talk about kinda briefly is a number of different ways in which the criminal justice system has grown so big, that it can reach out and punish people that are not in the criminal justice system. That it can reach out and affect other parts of society that you would think wouldn't be affected. And you know... Take my first favorite example. `The U.S. census each decade counts the population, figures out where people are for the purposes of political apportionment.` For a purpose of figuring out how much representation each community gets in state legislatures, and in congress, and in county government. This is this fundamental building block of our democracy that is built on an assumption that predates mass incarceration. That was designed back when there weren't that many people in prison. Because what the Census Bureau does is they count incarcerated people as if they actually lived at the correction facility. When there weren't that many people in prison, it didn't matter. But now when you have 2 million people in cages, I mean that's more than the combined population of our three least populous states. They could have six votes in the U.S. Senate, and like nine in the Electoral College, if prisoners were configured a little bit differently. This is a big population. 

And it makes a difference, so in the interest of time, let's use this video to explain how it is that our democracy gets broken by the census, and by having so many people behind bars in a system that was never attended to do that. ^- The Census Bureau counts prisoners ^just like they count everybody else. ^But the Census Bureau considers prisoners ^as residents of the township where the prison is located. ^Not where they lived before they got convicted. ^So what you say. ^The state uses these numbers ^to determine election districts. A senator from a white, rural area with a prison, can count the inmates as his constituents and therefore increase his political influence. Those inmates who are largely of color, aren't allowed to vote. The senator has no allegiance to them at all. In fact, he benefits by voting for laws to keep them incarcerated longer. The census is senseless. (buzzer) - 

You know this is not just a `dramatization`. People heard of the Attica prison, famous prison in upstate New York where there's a rebellion. You know this is a man who represented this prison and seven others in his district, who would actually brag. He's glad prisoners can't vote cause they wouldn't vote for me. And it's also true here in California, the way the central valley is dominated by prisons. Now to be clear, the census is not why we have so many prisons. This is how incentives work. The prisons were built, they created this political incentive that supported the legislators that were supportive of prisons, which gave them extra influence in order to push for more of what they wanted anyway, and diluted the votes of everyone else. Particularly the communities that incarcerated people came from, but `diluted` the votes of everyone else and gave Dale Volker just a little bit extra pull to use. In exchange, what it gave them was this thin incentive to build more prisons and gave the entire legislature this huge incentive to not ask one very simple question, which is, We launched on this big experiment to build prisons as a solution to crime. What are we getting for that? Are we better off? And that's a discussion that has been postponed in most states again, and again, and again in part because of the extra influence that prison gerrymandering gives to the forces of prison expansion. I'm totally supporter of the government trying new things. The government is entitled to try dumb things. The government is entitled to make mistakes, but as our leaders, I think they have an obligation to recognize those mistakes and try something different, and to evaluate what they're doing. And what prison gerrymandering does is it short circuits that process. And I wanna kinda like make this like... You know I wanna beat this one to death. So at the time that I did the New York report, most incarcerated people came from New York City, the little purple at the bottom. A few came from the suburban areas, and a small number came from the entire upstate region which included these cities. But the prisons are overwhelmingly located upstate. 91% of the state's prison cells were located at least two hours, and sometime 18 hours from New York City. But all the prisons were concentrated in seven state senate districts, all represented by conservative, white senators who supported prison expansion, and who controlled the state's committees, and the legislature on crime policy. And that's how New York state was able to avoid, for so many years, repealing these harsh Rockefeller drug laws which the state had been regretting since shortly after they were passed in the early 1970s. Now, after all the conspiratorial downer, we have good news. So some states have fixed this. New York passed legislation, California, Maryland, `Delaware`, they count incarcerated people at home for redistricting purposes now. A number of other states have tried to do so. Hundreds of rural governments have done this on their own. So that's good, that's progress. It is possible to bring up a complicated structural issue, get a state to address it and fix it. So, change is possible. But I wanna shift gears and talk about the personal, rather than the political experience of incarceration. And I wanna start with just a survey of data collected from some incarcerated parents by the federal government. So answer this question. Have you been in touch with your children in the last month? And if so, how? 70% have done so by letter. I just wanna make this really `blunt`, letters... How many of you know what letters are? Let me ask a better question. (laughter) Alright, now we got a laugh out of that. Like how many of you have written a letter with an envelope and a stamp, in the last month. Okay not ever, I meant like in the last month. I'm just curious. Okay, a few alright. 53% have done so by phone. I know you all have cell phones in your pockets. And I know we use it mostly for texting. How many of you have made a phone call in the last month. Okay, all of them. I know phones you know is not as cool anymore, but like alright so there it's less. And we'll talk a little bit about why that number's only 53% And 42% by personal visit because they build prisons in the middle of nowhere. A majority are at least 100 miles from home. It's hard to visit them and when you go there it's difficult. And... So the phone industries this covers one of these reports we did... So, I got a cell phone in my pocket. I have unlimited, long distance for some very small amount of money. But in a prison or jail it can cost up to a dollar a minute to receive a phone call from a prison because the incentives are wrong. This is again like prison gerrymandering. You and I choose our cell phones based on which company will give me the best deal for the best price. And I benefit, I pay. The way prisons... What they do is they give out a monopoly contract to a single company, not on the basis of who provides the best service or the best price to the families that pay the bill, but to which company will charge the most and kick back the most revenue to the facility. So of course the calls cost a dollar a minute. Of course 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 99% of the money that's raised goes back to the person who gave them a `monopoly` contract. This is like your ultimate short-sided policy because you have a state that's trying to raise money from the poorest residents of their state, in a way that `screws up` the lives of some of the most struggling families in a community, and then expects people to like be successful when you release them again. You know this is pretty dumb but when you're short-sided, it's a pretty easy policy to get yourself sucked into. 

Well good news. Last year the FCC capped the cost of calls that cross interstate lines, and they're trying to cap the cost of instate lines, of instate calls. Some states also have their own regulations they're trying to do. So there's more and more attention on this. You know even Alabama has very strong regulations on what the prison phone companies can do. And if Alabama can do it, every state can do it. (light laughter) Including California which is you know, kinda questionable. The state you know did ban kickbacks of cash on the phone, but the Department of Corrections is allowed to demand stuff from the company. So they get a lot of technology, and cell phone jamming equipment, and so forth. And I'll be honest with you, how did New York stop their cell phone `smuggling` problem? They passed a law that says the phone contracts will be negotiated on the basis of a lowest price to the consumer. And it cost I think four cents a minute to make a phone call from a prison. They provide all the security services, all the billing services, and the actual call for four cents a minute. And the very same company charges much more in California because they're also pocketing a lot and because they're giving stuff to the state. And as far as I'm concerned, you know there's a legal technicality but a bribe is a bribe. If I give you something of value, whether it's cash or a truck full of computer hardware, it's still something of value designed to influence your decision, that's how that works. So the companies are still fighting in the courts and coming up with some new products to rip off families that we'll talk about. But I want to talk about visitation. How many people have ever been in a correctional facility, either because you're arrested or because you're visiting someone or you got a job there. Alright, raise your hands a little higher. Alright, so some people have been in a correctional facility. How many people have been in a state or federal prison? Okay, how many people in a local jail? Okay, more people in a local jail. Let's see how this matches your experience. It's very hard to find pictures of visitation rooms. This I found on the architect's website. This is a prison built in Missouri. This is a visiting room. Cold, sterile. Looks kinda like a... Kinda like a bus station from hell. But like, this is good. Does this roughly match people's experience in state prisons. A little bit, some a little better, some a little worse. They're often like this. In jails, where again people are serving time for minor offenses or for... Or they're innocent and they're not convicted of anything. They often look like this. And this is a prison in... This is actually the L.A. jail for women that closed about 15 years ago. It's now a movie set that's owned by the Sheriff. The Sheriff rents it out. But looks like this, you got a phone, you got the glass. You got this booths. Not very good, you can't see people, you can't touch people. At least here maybe on the rules I can hug or kiss someone, beginning of the visit or end of the visit or both. Maybe if the rules allow I can hold hands with someone during the visit. None of that here where people are serving minor sentences or are legally innocent. But nowadays in jails, visitation rooms are starting to look like this. It's called video visitation. And you know you can see the technology doesn't work well. We see the tops of peoples heads. And the companies are pushing this service for a bunch of reasons. One is cause it's not currently regulated by the FCC. Well alright, I got another video to see if we can explain how they explain this service. (bouncy music) 

- [Skype] Hi I'm Skype.

And I'm video visitation and I'm just like Skype. - What? No matter where your family is you can stay in touch with Skype. - And if your prison uses our service, all in person visits are banned. - Sorry, what? - Yeah, it's right here in the contract. All in person visits banned. - Why? - Well first of all, if we ban in person visits, we make a boatload of money. And secondly, who wants to see their families. It's a win win. - It's disgusting, everybody wants to see their families. - Not everybody wants to see their families. Some people had families that were suffocating. And maybe didn't allow them to pursue their artistic interests in ventriloquism or kites. - Are you talking about your family? - No. - You're using your weird family background to hurt millions of people. You are a sad, sad man. (bouncy music) - 


And so if you go and do a visitation room that looks like this it's a little bit easier for the jail. You know, you don't have to move people around. And you make this process stinks so much that you have to drive across county... How long would it take to get to the L.A. county jail from here, which is downtown somewhere. Like a very, yeah I'm seeing like ugly looks on your faces. Like a very long time. So like oh, I'm gonna go all the way down town to look at like this computer screen. Alright, I'll just pay a dollar a minute to do it from home. That's what the whole goal is to drive people to. And there's a bill pending now in the legislature to prevent jails in California from banning in person visits. And it's passed the House, it's passed the Senate. The governor hasn't signed it yet, and he has until the end of the month. And you know it looks like he may not be signing it. So there was a protest outside of his office on Monday and a rally. And so this something you actually can get involved in and help on. The governor needs more people to tell him that real visits #areimportant. And then you should sign SB1157 and there's a Facebook group with updates on this in California. Like this is a big thing like that you can do right now that will make a difference in California. Would also make a bigger difference in other states cause Texas, Texas passed a similar legislation. And if anybody feels uncomfortable with saying that like Texas is more enlightened on criminal justice policy than California, if that bothers you, you know you need to call the governor now. But we get California into this, we can pressure a few more states to do the same thing. So, I've dumped a lot on the bad news. And the good news is... There's some things to be optimistic about. So I started doing this work at a time where incarceration was going up, up, and up, and the only real, interesting dispute was over which party was going to work harder to convince the public that they were the most law and order, lock em up, throw away the key. And that is changed. Criminal justice reform is in the air. Our elected officials, and all levels of government, up to even Congress are talking about criminal justice. In most states they're not doing anything, but they are talking about it in a way that is new. And it suggest a willingness. They don't have any ideas or willingness to prioritize it, but it suggest a willingness to do something on criminal justice form, that's exciting. I just wanna remind people of like... Imagine a parallel universe where Hillary Clinton is... It's not clear that she's gonna win the primary over Bernie Sanders. So on the eve of a really important primary, she doesn't campaign, gets on her plane, goes back to Arkansas, and oversees an execution of a man who is so mentally retarded, he saved his desert for after his execution. Because Hillary Clinton needs to be seen as a supporter of the death penalty and supporter of law and order. And that was the trick that gets her to sinch the nomination over Bernie Sanders. Now this is a crazy parallel universe and I'm seeing some like frightened looks on this. This is actually almost entirely true, except it's Bill Clinton in 1992. A very deliberate attempt to run to the right of the Republicans, in order to make the point that Democrats can be irrationally, reactionary on criminal justice. 

And... That's what's changed. Is that Hillary Clinton or any serious presidential candidate in 2016 would not do that. You know, they might about the degree to which the death penalty makes them nervous or that they oppose it but nobody would go out of their way to fly back so that they could receive a `clemency` `petition` and deny it, that you've already decided you're gonna deny. Like nobody would do that. That is a different universe that we live in now and that's the good news. And I'd like to think that when people write the history of the movement against mass incarceration, they're gonna look back at right now. Because a bunch of big things have changed. And I think the phone justice campaign at the FCC is actually this big turning point. Cause this is something where a petition that was filed by this blind grandmother whose grandson was incarcerated. And she's having a hard time paying her rent, and the phone bill at the same time. Paying hundreds of dollars a month to communicate with her grandson, to be this lifeline for him. She has this petition at the FCC and they ignore it for years. And then a couple years ago, the FCC starts to pay attention. Again, I think it's in large part because this eleven million people who cycle through jail every year. Plus all the people that cycle through prisons. Including like FCC staff are willing to like have these experiences and they're willing to like be honest about them and to take a request like this seriously, to regulate this small industry that raises a billion dollars off of poor families. Like, that's a different kinda tipping point that we've reached that gives us some room. There was a time when all those families could be ignored, and now there's so many, and there's you know the cell phone videos of the police, there's enough kinda avenues to have these larger discussions. So that's my reason for optimism and it's my hope in 10 or 20 years we can look back at now and it be this very clear kinda sign that like this was the beginning of the change but we're succeeding at getting this country to understand how mass incarceration doesn't work, and how it hurts everyone but we haven't figured all the things out. And it's my hope that this framework can kinda help us all do that but this is something where I really honestly have to say to y'all. This is where we all have to come together, kinda figure this out ourselves, and come up with these answers. Cause speaking for myself personally, I don't have faith in our elected officials to come up with the answer for criminal justice reform. And that's not so much a judgement of them. It's because our elected officials' jobs is to be generalists, and to listen to people, and to make decisions. Coming up with answers is not their strong suit. That's what we need to do, we need to come up with answers. You know for example, tell governor Brown that real visits are a no-brainer and to sign the thing, and make him do that. And establish a baseline for what we want. So that's how we can make criminal justice reform happen. Hopefully I gave you a crash course that was helpful. I will stop there and answer questions and we can have a discussion. Thank you very much. (applause) - 

[Michael] We now have time for a question and answer session. If you have a question, please raise your hand and Sarah or I will come to you. - 

[Male] Hi, oh sorry sure. So, during this conversations of mass incarceration I feel like that's talked about is the war on drugs and drug arrests. So I was really surprised to see in your pie chart that violent crimes and property crimes took up a much bigger `portion` of arrests. So I wanted just to hear your opinion on the increase in rates of incarceration for those two crimes, and what we should do about those or about the increase in arrests. 

A lot of the stuff with violent crime, why that's so big is because the sentences are longer for violent crimes. And we need to have a conversation about like is prison the appropriate treatment for all these things. And why are the sentence lengths what they are. I just don't do quickie stories. There's this station on cable that has... I've seen on U.S. cable this british version of Cops. And I love watching this. You know they'll show you like a police chase, and like they'll see then the person get tackled and arrested at the end. Like the narrator says, "This person you know who led this police chase "and endangered 12 people and destroyed four cars "is gonna do some serious time." They might go away for as long as two years. It's like these things are all relative. These numbers of sentences come out of thin air, and the only thing they do, is like when they discover it doesn't stop crime, they get increase again. That is a solution that doesn't work, so we do need to have a conversation, what should sentences be, how long should they be, can they be shorter? And that's true for violent crime and that's true for property crime. And it also means getting into like the details around these definitions. So like there's a big number here for murder but lots of things are murder. Driving a get away car where someone robs a bank and a teller is killed is considered murder in most states. Driving a get away car where your co-bank robber is killed by the police is also considered murder. Like there's a whole continuum of things where some offenses are not as significant as we think. Also people change. You know, people make mistakes when they're young, I think you all know that. Some people are different and change in time. They don't need to be in prison anymore, by any stretch of the imagination. The same things due for property. The things about drugs, so drugs get more credit. The war on drugs gets more credit for mass incarceration than it deserves but drugs are a kinda gateway drug for the system to arrest people, give people a criminal record. So lots of people get arrested and then get probation. And then you're under police surveillance, and then your house is being searched periodically, and then you get arrested for something else. And then you have a record, so now you're gonna get a longer sentence for that petty assault you did. We definitely need to think about more than just the drug offenses so you're right there. You know, and I think that's an important fact.

[Male] Thank you so much for your talk. I have so many questions for you but just picking one, you and I both know that despite what Donald Trump might tell us, that crime rates are decreasing since the 1990s. And you talked about how incarceration, and this was toward the beginning of your speech, how incarceration and crime rates have very little correlation, and very little to do with each other. I'm curious that in light of that, what do you think is responsible for the decrease in crime rates? 

It's a lot of factors. It's the economy, it's reduction in lead in poor communities. Like removing lead from gasoline and from houses reduces the number of people that you poison. It's... What else could it be? It's a lot of... Oh guns, reducing the number of guns. Like you know, there's still way too many guns in this country, but one thing that we did in the 90s was the federal government basically shut down the really cheap gun manufactures. So it's no longer possible to buy a hand gun for $20. And if you buy a hand gun for $20, you don't... You know they call them Saturday night specials, you don't need to save up very long. This doesn't take make planning and all kinds of mayhem can ensure. Now they didn't do what other countries have done when they have serious gun control and go and collect all the guns. But it turns out luckily that cheap hand guns aren't very good. They don't last very long, so all of those cheap hand guns that were sold before they were banned are all broken now. So that helps. Also the end of the crack epidemic, like both the concept of like crack was bad and destabilizing existing drug markets, like all that kinda change is over now. You can also see like yes, is crime up in Baltimore? Yes, some of that has to do with like the drugs that were looted during the `riot`. It's like destabilizing the drug market and now it seems like it's back to like its lower level. What Donald Trump is tying into is that people are very bad at predicting crime rates. If you ask people "Is crime going up?" People every year consistently, for the last 30 years will say crime is going up. If you ask them "Is crime going up in your neighborhood?" Most people will say it's going up but it will have a some what of a `resemblance` to actual reality. But you ask them in general if crime is going up, they're gonna say it's going up because its what's on the news. And why is it on the news? Because that's easy, cheap to do. It gets ratings, and think of this way, if you're a news producer and you're doing a 6 o'clock broadcast and an 11 o'clock broadcast, what do you put on the 11 o'clock news that was not on at 6? Well crime works because police are the only government agency that's still open after 6 o'clock. Like it's a bunch of things that all factor in together, so it doesn't have to be a conspiracy theory to confuse people. But a bunch of bad things come together to make punishment into, in the prison system, into this one-stop solution for all kinds of social problems that it doesn't work at. And that's where we have to find ways that's gonna break that, I don't know what's the opposite of `fortuitous`? That like `unfortuitous` cycle. Long answer to your awesome question. - 

[Female] Hi, so you just kinda touched on this briefly but you talked about drugs being kinda like a gateway for people being imprisoned but I also know that mental health has also contributed to the rise of incarceration. And with the end of institutions in the 60s, a lot of people with mental health problems have been incarcerated, so I was wondering if you had any thoughts on that as well? 

Yeah, so if you look at... So this graph of incarceration rates, if you were to overlay on it also like the mental hospital institutionalized rate, it kinda looks like the reverse. It use to be much higher into the time we deinstitutionalized people and dumped them out onto the street without community support. Some of those people then were directly transferred to the criminal justice system. And there's a real kinda need to give people appropriate resources. And if someone has a mental health problem, like there is no way in which putting them in a very stressful situation in a cage with other people who are also highly stressed is going to help them succeed. Like that's at this most kinda basic level and there's a little bit of dabbling in some communities about creating alternative mental health courts for people with diagnosed mental health problems, if the offense is not violent, and 12,000 other exceptions. And like those are good and all but it's a kind of again... You know alright, what's the analogy. If the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem is going to look like a nail. And that's how our criminal justice system works and what that means it's doing is it's denting a lot of things that really need other help. You know some of this, I'll say something sympathetic for the police, like we put too much burden on the police. Why are police like doing the criminal law. They're enforcing the civil law, when a traffic light's out they have to do that. They're also like mental health counselors and they get you know two hours of training on each one of these things. Like this is setting them up to fail. And like if you want to succeed and do something well, you have to have people who can do that thing well, and you have to train them to do it. And that's not been a lot of interest in that. You know the thing that really kind of, you know... Some off you are kinda highly critical of the police, I'll just say something, like how many people of the Texas pool party that white cop is throwing the black girl in her bikini to the ground. Right, and the other kids are getting upset and they rush the cop and he pulls out his gun. How many people know what else that cop did that day. He was a two suicide calls. One of them attempted and one of them successful. He was like really `traumatized` by that moment. And whoever was responsible for doing the routing, and for letting him go to that call, and not giving him the afternoon off, and sending him to a counselor screwed up. Now I say "screwed up" because it's not a mistake. Because many police departments have no kinda automated way to figure out how stressed their officers are. And that is a structural mistake that in the interest of `expediency` people skip. And I'm just telling you, if you don't know who your most stressed officers are on like a weekly or daily or minute by minute basis, you're going to have more problems. You have prediction. Now do people wanna use that information, and are police chiefs willing to go to the city council and say, "Here's this obvious thing "I should do but it's going to cost x, "are you willing to think ahead a few minutes "and pay for that." And that's the courage question. You know or to say hey, we're gonna stop issuing parking tickets. We're gonna use other people that can specialize in that, so that we can actually send people to mental health training. Those are some of like the big picture things that we have to do to kinda change our criminal justice system. Does that answer your question? 

[Male] Thank you for coming this evening. Would you mind going back to the state by state graph? I mean if we think of California kinda as an example at... Sorry the other one with the... - 

The spaghetti one. - 

[Male] Perfect, yeah. That if we think of California as kinda a example of the nation. You know, voters pursued policies that locked people up, and locked them up for longer all throughout the 90s, early 2000s and have been `reneging` on those policies for the past few years. But most of that drop off has really been because of a federal court order that then led to prison realignment. And so I guess the question is you seem to have a lot of faith in the voters to pressure their elected officials, but to what extent do you think that the courts are actually gonna be kinda the initial push here.

Alright so that's two problems. One's about my thought about the courts and one's actually my thought about me. And my thought about courts is I don't know if we can repeat the victory in California about overcrowding, where they were providing... The state was treating incarcerated people in inhumane ways, particularly on health care and mental health care issues. And I think that part of the mistake that the state made is that the state said, "Your Honor we can't afford to do it, "we have too many people." And they did this for too long and the court just said, "Screw you, "don't lock up so many people "and that will save your money." And then ordered the state to reduce it's population since the state couldn't come up with the money. And what the state then did was the shell game which changed a bunch of laws, and now the voters have changed some additional laws and that's a bigger deal. But shifted some people... Reduced some sentences but also shifted some people to local jails. So big drop in the state prison rate in California, some of that though is just transferred to jails. However, the good news is that California's still net down. So realignment has worked in that way. It did reduce the total net population. So I don't know if the federal courts are dying to get involved in a big way like they did in California with other states, and I don't know if other states would do the same rhetorical blunder that California did. But the other question though is about me and like why am I putting the faith in the voters. It's because I have a... My plan to influence elected officials involves influencing the public to influence them because the legislators don't care what I think or any one of you. They don't care what you think either but they do care what big groups of us think, and so if I need to use the public to get to the elected officials, I might as well come up with a plan that involves mobilizing the public because that's the only thing I know how to do. But it's going to take a long time because the public wanted this, and the public does not have a deep understanding of these issues and of the trade offs. And they need to... The public is very good at being manipulated by the press when there's a horrible incident happened. And you know, horrible incidents will happen. Horrible incidents will happen by people who are released from prison. Horrible incidents will happen you know by people who get invited to give talks here. Things will happen and we need to get people to explain this, you know and have realistic expectations. If I you know get `pneumonia` and go to the hospital and they treat me and then they release me and then I get a cold the next week, and I go back to the hospital. The hospital didn't fail. That was progress. And my doctor is like pretty clear about that, and my doctor knows how to explain this to the public, that it's not `malpractice` that I got a cold after I had pneumonia. The criminal justice system is not that brave and not that clear. And they're not doing a good job explaining to the public what it is they even do, and so we have to both change them, and we have to unfortunately do some of their job for them of explaining what they're suppose to be doing. So that's again why I'm fixated on the public. So we're clear, there was a hand in the front. I don't wanna tell you... 

[Female] Hi, you highly emphasize the amount of people that are being held without being convicted in local jails. Do you see any positive trends that will happen in our reliance on bail or is that going to stay the same? 

Okay so predictions on bail. (sighs) So I do my work in a state where private bail bondsmen are... Where there's this presumption that most people are gonna be released basically on a promise and that some people might have to give money but the private industry's not involved, you give it to the court. In most states there's this whole lobby, how many people know Dog the bounty hunter? Yeah, like okay. Yeah bounty hunters and bail bondsmen. Private companies... When the judge says you need $10,000, private people will say, "You give me a thousand cash right now, "I'll give the court $10,000 for you, "and if you don't show up I'll chase you down." Of course the way it actually works is they actually don't give the money to the court they just... If you don't show up then they have to give it to the court, so it's an awesome business to be in. But, these people when you have a completely reasonable bail reform proposal, this industry comes out in force and makes big contributions, and pushes legislators and makes them fearful, and they fight really hard against the most modest of bail reforms, so that's hard. On the other level there's some reasons for optimism. A lot of the big cities in this country are dropping their jail populations. And no one really understands yet how much of that is because crime is down in big cities, and how much of it is because cities are starting to use smarter policies on bail, and on arresting people for mental health problems, and so forth like they're starting to be better. Or is it because it's up in rural and suburban areas because they're arresting more people and they're less sophisticated or is it because crime is up. Like people really don't know yet. But the big worry is the `lobbying` of the bail bond industry is enough to make legislators fearful. So can they be defeated, yes. Have they in some states, yes. But like that's a problem and they don't get the bail bond industry is far more dangerous in my view than the private prison industry, and they get like zero press attention because they're not these big publicly traded companies who you can read about in the security exchange website. Like they're these little small mom and pop people, like Dog the bounty hunter that like are hard to get data on, and hard to write about. So it's harder for the 50 states, it's hard for journalists to engage them, it's harder for me to figure out how many bail bonds are written in a year. But they're actually much more dangerous. It's winnable but you know I'm not ready to give you odds. 

[Male in Blue] Thank you so much for your talk. My question has to do with the in large part, the increase at the local jail level. We know that since the 60s with the Gideon Wainwright decision, that people are afforded a public defender but it's gotten to the point where you know in places like Louisiana there's one public defender in a whole county. So how much of a decrease could we see in that local jail population if we adequately staffed these public defender offices, and didn't give public defenders hundreds of cases to deal with where the easiest thing to do is to convince their client to plead guilty because it's easier for them in the long run. 

Short answer, a lot. And it's actually you know... (exclaims) If we're looking for things the federal government could do, the federal government could start paying for local defense and subsidizing public defense. That actually would well send a signal and make a big difference. Or also little subtle tweaks that overlap with your question. Currently under the federal Constitution, the way it's interpreted, you're not required to have a counsel appointed at the bail stage. If states were to adopt a reform that counsel is appointed at the point that bail is set, people would be able to make a better case for bail, and more people would get bail. And we know this from the states that have passed these reforms or where there's been studies about doing this. Like that produces an outcome, a better outcome for everyone if you just tell the public defenders your allowed to start a little bit earlier. So yeah there's lots of rooms for reform right there. 

[Male] You talked a little bit about how the prison system is set up for people to fail again. I just want know if there's statistics on how badly... How bad the recidivism rate is and what the system can do to help people not fall back into the cycle of the prison system. 

(Sighs) So recidivism is complicated, this is not my specialty cause there's some big differences in how we measure it so. In some states... You know there's often the statistic like two-thirds, three quarters, that's the common number people recidivate. And what does that mean? That's like someone who like gets out of prison and then in the next three or five years is arrested again. Well arrest doesn't mean anything, how bout like had your parole revoked or you committed another offense. That to me is a more meaningful measure and that's lower. But then there's also is it a related offense. I'm gonna be really blunt like if someone is like a serial bank robber and goes to prison and gets out, and then or no... If someone is a murder, gets out, and then robs a bank. I'm not sure is that recidivism? Like that is a significantly less serious offense. Let's just be really clear about this. But just to blur these together or just say arrest, you know that's kinda bogus. So what can we do? Well, we could stop discriminating against people with criminal records. If you have a criminal record in a lot of states, there's all kinds of jobs you can't get. For a long time in New York state, you couldn't get a barber's license if you had a felony conviction. And this is doubly funny because that's basically the only thing that you can get trained to do in a New York state prison is how to be a barber but yet you couldn't get a barber's license cause you had a felony record. You know in most states it's legal to put on an application, "Have you been convicted of a `felony`." And then just throw away all those applications before you even meet people. Like there's all these changes there. Or oh, thank you Bill Clinton there's a provision in the federal welfare reform law that only a few states have opted out of this part, that people who have felony records and felony drug convictions can not stay in public housing. So if my mom is in public housing and I have a felony record, I can't stay with her when I get out so now I'm homeless. Like stop doing all these things. You know prison does so much harm. And you know I just have to like think about `Chumbawamba` here like you know, you break my leg, you give me `crutches`, and then you want me to say thank you. You know we have to kinda like be aware of how much harm incarceration is and how much harm it is to charge your family a dollar a minute to stay in touch with you. Like oh my god, your family wants to stay in touch with you and we're gonna punish them. Like oh no, no, no, no, no, no this is wrong like stop doing all these things. Like that's what we have to do, and we have to figure out how to get the system to wanna engage those big picture answers like I'm sitting here and addressing this to you. But we have to figure out to get Sheriffs to see that long term investment. And some times you see this like what did New York state say about why they lowered the cost of phones. They said like we see it as a cheap investment in lowering `recidivism`. Cause they were smart enough to do the math in their head that foregoing income is just like spending. This is also a state that recognizes their prisons are in the middle of nowhere, so for a long time they would subsidize buses so people from New York City could go upstate, cause it was a cheap investment in lowering recidivism. But you have to kinda do that. You know and you have to like have jobs for people, and you have to like be willing to train people. You know don't like take away all choice in people's life, I mean come on, what is one of the things you like learn here in college is like to be responsible to do things and like when your boyfriend or girlfriend breaks up with you, you still have to do that term paper. But you like take away all autonomy from people, give them no practical skills, give them no life skills, and tell them what to do for every minute of their lives, and then you're surprised that they have a hard time adjusting on the outside. Of course, this is why like... How do European prisons work? They're small, people go home, like there's all these kinda gradations of responsibility. Question is do you want people to succeed or do you wanna treat incarcerated people like they're `surplus` population. You know that's the fundamental question that I'm trying to figure out how to get the powers to be to address in a way that's helpful. Cause it's not helpful when I just say this `rhetorically` to them. A lot of my work is about phrasing those rhetorical questions in slightly more engaging ways about you know, let's talk about like you know the Rwanda incarceration rate. Well let's talk about why it's so hard to visit. And you know let's not talk about what color the rug should be in the visiting room, let's talk about like the `groping` of the guards and like why that girl doesn't wanna ever visit her father again. Like let's talk about these structural things. And that's not what they really wanna hear cause they want my opinion on what color the carpet should be in the visiting room and it's like no. And we have to figure out how to have those conversations. Long answer to a good question. 

[Female] Thank you for being here tonight. You `prefaced` your talk with saying the criminal justice system treats African Americans unfairly, but talked little about sort of those junctures that which fails, so I'd like to hear a little bit about more about that and how that differs from what you see as potentially differences in underlying actual incidences rights of the population. 

So I decided to not talk just about that because what to do about it, it's a little bit more complicated and it gets really... The things that matter get really technical really fast. Let's just put something out there. Offense rates for many kinds of crime due appear to be higher for African Americas than for Whites. Notable exception drugs, depending on the drug type Whites use it more often than African Americans. Yet that does not explain the extremely large racial disparity in drug offenses. So that racial disparity and incarceration is highest in the drug context and that is a place where it is either equal or slightly higher for Whites. So that's like completely unjustifiable. And the problem is that the biases occur at all these different levels. Increased policing in communities, psychological bias is African American boys are more likely to be seen as dangerous because they're Black, are more likely to be seen as adults and more `culpable`. You have the sentences biases, you have like... And the Mother Jones piece about girls did a really nice job about this and about some of the biases that are like become structurally in placed. But what I'm losing the most sleep about right now is this concept of what's called risk assessment. Judges and how we decide bail is biased and we should instead figure out not their likely hood of being able to come up with money or their likely hood of showing up for trial, but their actual dangerousness. And we're gonna use a computer program and there's a bunch of different computer programs that do this. Some of them are confidential and you have to pay a license and you can't look at it. The computer program answers a bunch of questions then tells the judge release or don't release. Or some of them you can see the algorithm but what's the data that goes into this. And most of the people say we're using race... We're not using race as a factor. Well are you using a factor that is correlated with race. So it's not race but it's something that might as well be race. Like oh zip code. Zip code is a very strong predictor of re-offense. Well it's... Thank you racial segregation. That is a beautiful proxy for race. That is completely in my view, illegitimate criteria that many of these formulas are quite happy to use. And then other defenders these folks say we've tested our things, they're not racially bias or they're better than the current system. But it's like well how are you judging that, compared to what? Comparing to the current system, comparing to offense patterns, comparing to the demographics of the population. And when I ask this question the people developing these algorithms, I get met with blank looks. It's like oh this is not good. It's like your not even able to engage the question. Then the real question is how important is racial inequality to you because you're trying to build a robot to replace judges, and you can't even answer the question how important is racial inequality and inequity to you. And it's like uh oh and this is big dilemma and it's very technical but it's because... What I'm trying to figure out is the research does seem to say that these are less racially bias than the current status quo that judges use. But once we have a robot do this and we start jamming it through to more and more locations and paying less and less attention about how we're using it, will we still get that same slight improvement, and two will we have like permanently ensconced into the system a self `perpetuating` prophecy because if you decide to not give certain groups of people access to bail, you then make them more likely to plead guilty and go to prison. And that's what I'm not seeing that kinda worrying about and... And that's the kinda thing like I'm thinking about a lot. But all the different biases, you know the various stages of prosecution and like... We just did this interesting blog post about juvenile life without parole sentences and racial biases. And the reason I'm flagging this is because some researchers did this interesting thing. They ignored racial bias that existed before the police were involved, they took at the point of arrest. Let's just pretend that there's no racial bias for the sake of argument up to arrest. Let's just look at what the prosecutors and the judges do. And said oh look it's twice as likely that African American kids are gonna get a life without parole sentence. And I think it was useful but that makes `this absolutely huge concession`, like rhetorical concession, but then allows itself to put pressures on prosecutors and judges who are usually so happy to say, "We're perfect, it's the police "and I don't control them." But we really kinda struggled over this blog post because it was conceding something that was really important and probably bigger than the thing it chose to talk about. And I just haven't figured out how to come up with like a recipe for racial justice in the criminal justice system that's not about rebooting the entire criminal justice system. And I think the kinda question to judge criminal justice reformers is to try to figure out how important racial quality is to them. Cause I think... I'm not saying like oh let's make criminal justice reform about middle class White people, keeping middle class White people out of prison and then that's gonna magically reduce racial `disparities`. Like no it won't. It's lots a criminal justice reforms that'll do that. But what I'm... I'm giving a long answer cause I think about this a lot and I don't have an answer. Is to kinda figure out what people's goals are and trying to get people to put their goals into words. And I haven't figured out how to do that yet. And mostly cause the powers that be don't wanna have this conversation. But if anyone has any ideas I'm all yours. Now, tomorrow, next month, any time. Did I come close to answering your question? Alright, and I think I wore you down. 

[Female] Hi, so my question also has to do with racial disparities within the criminal justice system. I think like one of the most frustrating things is seeing the discrepancies in prison sentences, especially like we've being seeing in the news lately between young, white men committing certain crimes and getting very short sentences for those crimes, and then young, black men committing the same crimes and getting much more severe sentences. So I was wondering if you think there's any way that, any possibility for us to like standardize prison sentences and get rid of that issue. 

You're thinking like the Stanford rape case, right? Yeah, this is this question, so was the Stanford rape case an abuse of discretion or should more sentences look like that. Like that's like a fundamental question we have to kinda decide, is which one do we want to be the default. And that's where people don't agree. And, I'm in general not of fan of mandatory sentences, I'm a fan of giving judges discretion. Although, you know in the 19, Alright, we're in California. George Jackson, does that ring a bell for people. Black Panther killed in prison, okay no. Anyway made him political inside after, he got basically a life sentence for robbing $70 from a gas station in 1969. And because he was political they were never gonna let him out. But he did not have a life sentence because he was George Jackson, this black panther. He got a life sentence because everyone did. Everyone got sentences one year to life and just show us your good. And what people learned was that the parole board was racist and wouldn't give, wouldn't release African Americans. And so then we had this idea of like oh let's have `mandatory` sentences or sentences with a narrow guidelines and you know the sentences I think were longer than the people, the reformers wanted. I guess they wanted shorted to terminate sentences and we got long to terminate sentences. But I don't know, like I don't have... I go back and forth on how much discretion we want, but if we're gonna mechanize justice, I mean think about it this way. This is from this Norwegian criminologist named Nils Christie, the federal sentencing guidelines give you a bunch of points for the severity of the offense a long here, and then a bunch of things about your criminal record down here. Alright, so then the judges looks it up, give a sentencing in this narrow range and just use your discretion within this narrow range of a few months, give this sentence. You may as well replace the judge with a computer at this point. The guidelines say don't take race into account, don't take age into account, don't take education into account. I'll say, why not. You know, why don't take education, it's rhetorically, why not take education into account. You have a PhD, you should have known better. You didn't graduate from high school, our society owes you something cause our society, we promised you an education and we failed you, we should give you less. Maybe you end up with a negative sentence. I mean seriously, this is like if you're gonna mechanize these decisions to get away from individual biases, what are the criteria that you're gonna do that on? And that's something as a society, we need to come up with an answer to cause one doesn't exist. And anyone who says like oh we can just legislate away biases is lying or naive, and probably naive. But that's what we have to figure out. Hopefully that was helpful. 

[Michael] Unfortunately that's all the time we have for questions. Please join me in thanking Peter Wagner. (audience applause) 