https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esuvYHZe22c&ab_channel=KingsandGenerals
19:16
```
spiritual       adj. 精神的，心灵的；宗教的；（人）高尚的，不为物欲所动的
discord         n. 意见分歧，不和；不和谐音，不协和弦
worship         v. 敬奉（神）；爱慕，崇拜
foe             n. 敌人，对头
ideology        n. 意识形态，思想体系；<古>观念学；<古>空想
culmination     n. 终点，高潮；<旧>（天体的）达于中天
instigate       vt. 唆使；煽动；教唆；怂恿
aptitude        n. 天资；自然倾向；适宜
gauge           n. 计量器；标准尺寸；容量规格；针织物的细度
plethora        n. 过多；过剩；[医] 多血症
premiere        n. （电影、戏剧的）首次公演 v. 首次上演；首次露面；首次公演（戏剧、音乐等）adj. 首要的；最早的  
leash           n. 拴狗链，皮带；猎鹰腿带；（喻）约束，限制；<罕>（狩猎）三只一组
reign           n. （君主）在位时期，统治时期；领导期，任期；支配期，极盛期；（运动员或运动队）持有指明荣誉头衔的时期
inexplicable    adj. 费解的；无法说明的；不能解释的
prominent       adj. 重要的，著名的；显眼的，突出的；突起的，高耸的
prominence      n. 重要，著名；突起，凸出；（尤指地形或身体部位）凸出物；日珥
oppress         v. 压迫，欺压；使压抑，使烦恼；（纹章）使（图记）部分模糊    
sedentary       adj. 久坐的；坐惯的；定栖的；静坐的    
fiscal          adj. （政府）财政的；<美>财政年度的；<美>金融的
accuse          v. 控告，指控；指责，谴责，归咎于
purge           v. 清除（不愿有的情感）；消除（回忆、心情等）；清除（一群不受欢迎的人）；把某人从……上清除掉；弥补；将（某物）彻底清除；通便；净化；催吐
revoke          vt. 撤回，取消；废除
bureau          n. 局，处，科；办事处，办公室；五斗橱，衣柜；书桌
loot            v. （尤指在战争或暴乱中）抢劫，掠夺
merit           n. 优秀品质，价值；优点，长处；<英>（成绩等级）良好；事实真相，是非曲直；善行，善事
proclaim        v. （正式）宣告，（公开）声明；强调，声称；（标志或通知）宣传，告知；清楚表明，显示
persecute       v. （尤指因种族、宗教或政治信仰而）迫害，残害；骚扰，纠缠  
predecessor     n. 前任，前辈；（被取代的）原有事物，前身
ascend          vi. 上升；登高；追溯
zealous         adj. 热心的，热情的，积极的  
exempt          adj. 被免除……的，获豁免的
psyche          n. 灵魂；心智
slaughter       n. 屠宰；大屠杀；（非正式）彻底击败
consult         v. 咨询，请教；商量，商讨；查询，查阅；当顾问
lament          n. 挽歌；恸哭；悲痛之情
eternal         adj. 永恒的，永存的；似乎无休无止的，没完没了的
esteem          n. 尊重，敬重
authentic       adj. 原作的，真迹的；传统的，正宗的；逼真的，仿真的；真实的，可靠的
skeptical       adj. 不相信的，持怀疑态度的；（哲）怀疑论的，不可知论的
prolong         v. 拉长，拖长（感觉或活动）；<罕>延长
massacre        n. 屠杀，残杀；<非正式>（运动或比赛中的）惨败
monarch         n. 君主，女王；黑脉金斑蝶；王鹟
lucrative       adj. 获利多的，赚大钱的
prompt          v. 促使，导致；鼓励，提示（说话者）；（计算机上）提示；（给演员）提词，提白
vantage         n. 优势；有利情况；有利地位
urge            v. 敦促，催促，力劝；竭力主张，强烈要求；驱赶，鞭策；鼓励，激励（~ sb. on）
```

Why and How the Mongols became Muslim

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

The Mongols were known for `unleashing` a series of `unrelenting` horrors upon the Islamic world, from the catastrophic destruction of the Khwarezmian Empire to the `sack` of Baghdad. No shortage of Islamic authors over the thirteenth century called the Mongols a punishment sent by God for their sins. Yet, many of the Mongols in the west of the empire before the end of the thirteenth century converted to Islam, and in time some of the heirs of Chinggis Khan held the sharia over the yassa. In today’s episode of our series on the Mongols, we explore why so many Mongols chose to convert to Islam. 

The Mongols might have been religiously tolerant when it suited them, but you shouldn’t tolerate people who try to steal your data or limit your online content choices and the sponsor of this video NordVPN is a perfect tool for that! NordVPN’s 5500 super-fast servers located in 60 countries will allow you to change your IP to avoid regional restrictions. Being geo-locked or missing a `premiere` or a deal because you are in the wrong country is no fun, and with NordVPN you will be able to connect to other countries and get more content out of your streaming subscriptions. Also, it is important to keep our browsing info safe from the `snoopy` ISPs and NordVPN will do just that! You can use it even in countries where VPNs are banned. NordVPN never logs your data and protects your information in public spaces by using double-data encryption! It works on Windows, Linux, iOs, and Android and has 24/7 customer support and a 30-day money-back guarantee! And most impressively, it is incredibly cheap, especially if you use our link! Join us and stop tolerating the theft of your data and geoblocks limiting your entertainment options! Get 4 free months of `premium` VPN and Save 73% by going to nordvpn.com/KingsandGenerals or pressing the link in the description! Don’t forget to use the coupon code KingsAndGenerals! 

The Mongolian interaction with Islam began in the twelfth century as Islamic merchants brought valued goods such as `textiles` or metal tools in exchange for furs and animals. At least two Muslims, Hasan and Ja’far Khoja, were among Chinggis Khan’s close allies during his escape to lake Baljuna, where they swore loyalty to him. As Chinggis Khan expanded the Mongol Empire, initially Muslims found little reason to `lament` it. Muslim merchants continued to serve in prominent roles, acting as emissaries and spies on behalf of the Khan, who rewarded them and encouraged them to make the difficult journey to Mongolia. When Chinggis Khan’s great general Jebe Noyan entered the Tarim Basin in 1218 pursuing their fleeing foe Kuchlug, he proclaimed that all those who willingly submitted were free to worship as they chose. The region swiftly threw out Kuchlug’s `garrisons` and accepted Mongol rule, not as conquerors but liberators. The next stage of Mongol expansion was not so well received. The highly destructive conquest of the Khwarezmian Empire resulted in the deaths of millions across what is now Uzbekistan through eastern Iran and Afghanistan. Though most of Iran submitted peacefully to the Mongol Noyan Chormaqun over the 1230s, with the arrival of Hulegu in the 1250s a new wave of massacres were unleashed, culminating in the sack of Baghdad in 1258 and death of the ‘Abbasid Caliph, an immense blow the `psyche` of the ummah. At the end of the 1250s, it seemed that soon the whole of the Muslim world would become the subject of the Grand Khan. The initial period after the Mongol conquest was, for many Muslims, not easier. Claims of Mongol religious toleration have been greatly over-exaggerated and coloured by our modern perception of the term. While it is true that the Mongols generally did not persecute on the basis of religion, the Mongols did `persecute` specific beliefs they saw as contrary to steppe custom and the laws of Chinggis Khan, the great Yassa. These `infractions`, such as halal slaughter or washing of dirty things in running water, resulted in Mongol oppression. Both Chinggis Khan’s son Chagatai in the 1230s and Khubilai Khan in the 1280s `forbade` halal `slaughter` on pain of death. A Khwarezmian refugee to the Delhi Sultanate writing around 1260, Juzjani, wrote of his sincere belief that Chagatai and other members of the Mongol leadership intended a `genocide` of the Muslims. Why did Islam succeed in converting the Mongols of western Asia, after such a low point? It was a matter of `proximity`. The majority of the population in the major centers in the Golden Horde, Ilkhanate, and Chagatai Khanate were Muslims, ensuring that not only could Sufis and others proselytize to the Mongol leadership, but also their military. Efforts by Buddhists or various Christian representatives, be they Catholic, Syriac or Nestorian, lacked comparable resources, and their efforts were generally restricted to attempting to convert the highest-ranking Mongols. While this brought them some influence, in contrast to the image in most historical narrative sources monarchs tended to convert once enough of their followers had done so for it to be a sound decision for their `legitimacy`. More Mongols simply had closer proximity to Muslim populations than they ever did Christian or Buddhist, leading to a more thorough conversion than any Franciscan friar could ever accomplish. Similar proximity prompted the slow sinicization of the Mongols in Yuan China. The Mongols also found Muslims very useful. Islamic craftsmen, administrators, and healers were quickly spread across the Mongol Empire, accompanying every Khan and Noyan on campaigns and in their camps. In short order they commanded armies, often of their own locally raised forces, to fight for the khans. The various Islamic peoples of Central Asia, be they Turkic or Iranic, provided a `plethora` of skills and manpower the Mongols lacked. By the reign of Ogedai, Muslims were many of the highest-ranking members of the `bureaucracy`. Mahmud Yalavach, his son Mas’ud Beg, and ‘Abd al-Rahman, served as heads of the Branch Secretariats the Mongols established to govern Central Asia and China. These men were answerable only to the Great Khan. The presence of many Islamic jurists in Chinggisid courts is well attested, and a merchant with `fiscal` ability could be richly rewarded in `lucrative` ortogh arrangements with Mongol princes. The Mongol search for skills they saw as useful particularly rewarded Muslims with `aptitude` in `alchemy` and `astrology`. The Khans of the Ilkhanate spent considerable sums on alchemists who claimed to be able to produce gold or `prolong` life, much to the `chagrin` of the Ilkhanate’s viziers. Astrologists who could determine the future also received great rewards, for the Mongols put great stock in this. The duties of Mongol shamans fell to influencing events within the current life, rather than with the next level of existence. Thus, for the Mongols, it was useful to accumulate holy men to interact with the supernatural beyond what their own shamans could. It also explains why, once they did convert, the Mongols continued to commune with shamans, which makes it difficult for many to accept their conversions as sincere. As historians like Devin DeWeese or Peter Jackson have argued though, we cannot `gauge` the authenticity of any Mongol conversion as our `vantage` point centuries later, and the nature of our sources leaves us unable to determine the `conviction` of each convert. The Mongols actively selected aspects of `sedentary` societies which benefitted themselves and therefore could choose to `profess` Islam while continually observing shamanic practices and standard cultural actions. The conversions of the Mongols and their `servants` began in the 1240s. One of the first prominent figures to convert was not a Mongol, but an Uyghur named Korguz, Ogedai’s appointment to head the Secretariat of Western Asia. One of the most powerful officials in the empire, Korguz’s conversion from Buddhism to Islam at the start of the 1240s marked the highest-profile convert yet in the Mongol government. According to Juvaini, Batu, while preparing for the confrontation with the Hungarians at Mohi in 1241, `ascended` a hill to pray to `Eternal` Blue Heaven, and asked the Muslims in his army to pray for victory as well. It is unclear if they were Muslim troops raised from Central Asia and the `steppe` or Mongol converts. One of the main units in Mongol expansion and consolidation was the tamma, a `garrison` force permanently stationed in a region made up of nomadic and `sedentary` troops. The Mongols in a tamma were forbidden to bring their families with them. Separated from their homeland, families, and shamans, and taking new wives who were generally Muslims, these Mongols were thus removed from the infrastructure that encouraged the maintenance of their traditional religion and made them more susceptible to conversion. This can best be observed in the case of tammchi Baiju, stationed in the Caucasus and Anatolia from the early 1240s until the 1260s. Over roughly twenty years he appears in a variety of historical accounts which demonstrate not only the presence of many Muslims in his camp, as advisers, administrators, and Sufis but also the gradual `conversion` of his men. By the end of his life, Baiju became a Muslim and asked to be washed and buried in Muslim fashion on his death. Perhaps the most famous convert was Berke Khan, known for his war against his cousin Hulegu over the Caucasus. Conflicting accounts are given for his conversion: either he was raised a Muslim or converted in the 1240s through the efforts of the Sufi Shaykh Sayf al-Din Bakharzi. Certainly, by the 1250s, Berke was a Muslim as multiple independent sources `attest` to his `adherence`, though Mamluk embassies indicate that Berke continued to dress and wear his hair in the distinctive Mongolian style rather than don Islamic clothing. While Berke’s war with Hulegu is often portrayed as his anger over the death of the Caliph, it seems this was a secondary concern to him. His own letters to Sultan Baybars blame the conflict on Hulegu’s infringement of the Yassa by failing to send Berke loot from Baghdad and Iraq or `consult with` him. The fact that war began three years after Baghdad’s fall, and that Hulegu occupied Jochid territory in northern Iran and the Caucasus after Mongke’s death, suggests that Berke’s immediate concerns were more strategic than spiritual. Islam for the early converts like Berke was not a change of identity, but an acceptance alongside their existing beliefs and incorporated into a Chinggisid worldview. Almost certainly Berke, like his Islamic successors, continued to consult with shamans and the Yassa, yet never felt disloyal to the sharia. While Berke’s conversion was accompanied by some of his brothers and commanders, there was no immediate Islamization of the emerging Golden Horde. Only at the start of the 1280s did both westernmost khanates of the Mongol Empire have Muslim rulers: Töde-Möngke [r.1280-1287] in the Golden Horde, and Tegüder [r.1282-1284] in the Ilkhanate. Once more, the sources hint that shaykhs and Sufis were behind the conversion of both men, and continued to be held in great esteem in their courts. For the Ilkhan Tegüder, who upon his `enthronement` went by the name of Sultan Ahmad, we have a variety of sources that describe his commitment to Islam, which vary widely and demonstrate why many doubt the authenticity of the early conversions. In a letter Tegüder sent to the Mamluk Sultan Qalawun, Tegüder spoke of establishing sharia law in the Ilkhanate and that their shared religion made it easier for the Mamluks to submit to him. Cilician Armenian writers like Het’um of Corycus and Step’annos Orbelian generally portray Tegüder as a prosecutor of Christians. Yet at the same time, the Syriac churchman Bar Hebraeus wrote of Tegüder as a friend to Christians, an `upholder` of religious toleration who `exempted` them from taxation and allowed Hebraeus to build a new church, while the Mamluks were largely `skeptical` of his conversion. 

Taking the throne in 1295, the Ilkhan Ghazan portrayed himself as the first true Muslim Ilkhan. For this reason, the Islam of two of his `predecessors`, Tegüder and Baidu, was `denigrated` in official accounts from his reign, predominately the great work of his vizier Rashid al-Din. Ghazan only came to Islam a few weeks before his enthronement, urged to convert by his commander Nawruz Noyan and the Shaykh Sadr al-Din al-Hamuwayi during his rebellion against Ilkhan Baidu. While his biographer Rashid al-Din portrays Ghazan’s conversion as causing his commanders and soldiers to follow suit, it seems almost certain that it was in fact the opposite, and that by converting Ghazan hoped to gain the wavering support of Baidu’s Muslim followers, which quickly happened. Upon becoming Ilkhan, on the `instigation` of his zealous general Nawruz, Ghazan ordered the destruction of Christian, Jewish, Buddhist, and Zoroastrian centers in Muslim cities in his empire and `imposed` the jizya. However, these harsh measures were quickly rescinded with Nawruz’s downfall in 1297, though Buddhists did not return to the prominence they had previously enjoyed. Ghazan before the end of the 1290s donned a turban and even declared jihad against the Mamluks. Yet his efforts did not convince everyone. 

Outside of Damascus in 1300, the great Mamluk jurist Ibn Taymiyya accused both Ghazan and his vizier, the Jewish convert to Islam Rashid al-Din, of being false Muslims, and that Ghazan continued to worship Chinggis Khan in place of sharia. The life of Ghazan’s brother and successor Oljeitu is the most extreme example of a Mongol prince’s flexible approach to religion. His father Arghun had the young Oljeitu baptized a Nestorian Christian and given the name of Nicholas. As a teen, he converted to Buddhism, taking the name of Oljeitu. Under the influence of a wife, he converted to Sunni Islam and became Muhammad Khudabanda. First attached to the Sunni school of Hanafism, then to Shafi’ism, frustration with fighting between them drove him back to Buddhism before in 1309 choosing Shi’a Islam. A number of sources offer explanations for what drove Oljeitu to become a Shi’a, generally focusing on how advisers, scholars, and emirs in his court convinced him of its merits. In some accounts, Oljeitu converted back to Sunni Islam shortly before his death in 1316. Following Ghazan’s reign [1295-1304] the Ilkhanate is considered an Islamic state, with the majority of its army and upper `echelons`. Muslim The process was slower in the Golden Horde and Chagatai Khanate. In the Golden Horde, it took until the reign of Özbeg Khan [r.1313-1341], who seems to have converted shortly after his accession to gain the support of influential noyans within the Horde. In legendary accounts, Özbeg was converted by a Sufi named Baba Tükles, who proved the veracity of his religion by passing unscathed through an oven wearing nothing but chain maille, while the shaman he challenged was burnt to death. However, Baba Tükles does not appear in sources until centuries after Özbeg’s death, though likely he was influenced by Sufis and jurists in his `entourage`. To cement his reign and religion, Özbeg ordered the executions of over a hundred Chinggisid princes and noyans, larger than purges carried out by other `prominent` converts, such as Ghazan in the Ilkhanate and Tughluq Temur in the eastern Chagatai Khanate. Özbeg’s violent efforts succeeded in permanently making the Jochids Muslims. Still, in policy Özbeg, Ghazan and Oljeitu largely matched their forebears in providing `taxation` `exemptions`, favours, and other `privileges` to Christians, especially Franciscan missionaries, though on a lesser scale than earlier in the thirteenth century. Their successors, Özbeg’s son Janibeg and Oljeitu’s son Abu Sa’id, proved less welcoming, as even Christians found their privileges `revoked`. Janibeg ordered his men to dress in the fashion of Muslims, while Abu Sa’id sought to become the protector of the Holy Cities of Mecca and Medina, one year even sending an elephant there for `inexplicable` reasons. Still, these monarchs showed themselves to continue in their traditions, such as acts of `levirate` marriage, marrying their father’s wives, something forbidden by their new religion. Islam proved an aspect of these monarch’s identities, but it took many generations in Iran for all elements of Mongol culture and Chinggisid ideology to be driven out, and in the steppes the process, it can be argued, never truly fully replaced the memory of the house of Chinggis Khan. More videos on Mongol history are on the way, so make sure you are subscribed and have pressed the bell button to see it. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing - it helps immensely. Our videos would be impossible without our kind patrons and youtube channel members, whose ranks you can join via the links in the description to know our schedule, get early access to our videos, access our `discord`, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and we will catch you on the next one. 