https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZNoU3-eeEPQ
9:11
```
assure          vt. 保证；担保；使确信；弄清楚  
invasive        adj. 侵入的；入侵性的；扩散的    
pesticide       n. 杀虫剂，农药
sensation       n. 感觉，知觉；感觉能力，知觉能力；（某种经历所产生的）整体感觉，总体印象；轰动，引起轰动的人（或事）
assortment      n. 分类；混合物
perennial       adj. 多年生的；常年的；四季不断的；常在的；反复的 n. 多年生植物
nursery         n. 托儿所，幼儿园；儿童房；<旧>儿童活动室；苗圃；（医院里的）育婴室；动物繁殖场；温床；两岁的马参加的赛马  
monarch         n. 君主，女王；黑脉金斑蝶；王鹟
```
What's the BUZZ about native plants |Native Plant Society |Central Texas Gardener

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Our thanks to the Stockers for sharing their garden with us. it's always lovely to see, thank you so much for opening your garden gates. Right now we're going to be talking about Native Plant Weekend, `incorporating` native plants into our garden. I'm joined by Cathy Downs from the Native Plants Society of Texas and it's great to have you with us. 

Thank you, happy to be here. Now I know you're real involved in a variety of different things when it comes to native plants and especially when it comes to `monarch` butterflies, and we will be saving that for a little bit later in the program but I want to talk about kind of expanding the way we think about our native plants. Everybody thinks of them being being smart choices now because of the drought and because they are well-adapted but they have so many uses for wildlife. They're very beneficial but it's really important to think of them as four season kind of additions to the garden, right? 

It's true. If you consider that native plants and wildlife evolve together on the planet and actually adapted to service each other to the best success. And when European settlers came in and started to disrupt or put in non-native invasive plants we begin to see right away a loss of wildlife. So native plants, to me, they're key priority is to keep the wildlife habitat together. We're losing about 6,000 acres a day in Texas alone to development so we have that habitat loss as well. Anything that we can do on a home-level to help bring native plants back into a habitat areas is going to be very useful. One of the great benefits I think of native plants is one: conservation water, in a drought period these plants have developed and adapted to tolerate `drought` and other extreme climate on issues. So when we're planting native plants not only are we assuring that the soil will be protected even during times of drought, we're conserving water, the other things that we're doing is helping to promote public health because native plants don't require the fertilizers, the `pesticides` and the other things-- That can run off into our streams. That's absolutely right so it's a public health concern as well, not using native plants. So they're obviously many benefits to the use of native plants and I love just the notion of bringing what's, you know, our native material into the backyard, in part because-- I've heard people talk about this kind of poet concept of "create a national park in your backyard." You know if everybody adopted native plants and we all did this and it would stretch across all those suburban spaces, it would be effectively creating like cities in parks. And I think that's a really wonderful concept. It is a wonderful concept. You know the nursery varieties that were so popular during the 50s and 60s, and during the 70s and 80s we saw real return to conservationism, if you will, and that's when native plants really started to take the front stage again. I think that in terms of native plants if you really want to create a diversity, you want to create a wildlife habitat for self, you can do it in a very tiny space and every little bit helps. The plants roots from native plants are `aerating` the soil, they're creating a better micro-environment below the soil so your food web continues on at a better pace. You have the micro organics underneath the soil, insects are going after those, the birds are going after the insects and the food web goes up. These are all adaptations, in four seasons, you have different life cycle needs for your animals. For instance the birds, the birds need to nest so they have to find proper nesting material. Some birds require only a certain material to nest. They are very particular, they're even particular where in the landscape they choose to nest, whether it's in the low area, the middle area, or the high canopies so when you're thinking about putting native plants in your garden you want to think about the four elements that are better so important: food, shelter water, and space. Those things should all be given to the landscape design. Well and this a great time to be thinking about it, Native Plant Week is coming up and appropriately in the fall because fall is the perfect time for planning in Central Texas. 

It's true in the fall, the cooler weather for one thing certainly makes us happier to be at out in the garden. And along with that, fall is a great time to start your `perennials`. It gives them several months to actually establish a root system, put up a little bit of a rosette or a little bit of cover over their root system that's going to protect them from `frost` and you'll see them come back and thrive in the spring. Yeah, give them a headstart on the summer, it's always a good idea, I think. Well you have water needs that are going to be as pressing when you're planting in the fall. You know and hopefully we'll get a little rain in the fall. Keep our fingers crossed. We were lucky enough to get some of that rain recently, we got 3 inches out there in Hill Country. Well good for you. Well, I know you're `passionate` about creating monarch waystations and a you're actually heading up the State Committee on this for the Native Plant Society. What is the concept all about, how can somebody who doesn't have a green thumb or native plant in their yard kind of adopt a study and get going? That's a really good question. Monarchs are kind of a brand and people recognize and understand monarchs. They have very great memories as children of monarchs flying through. And they are kind of a brand and a great indicator and a great indicator for `pollinators` in general. so what we're trying to do because monarch populations are decreasing is to offer monarchs a stopping by place. Now the requirements are very minimal for a monarch waystation, there is no minimum requirement to certify as a monarchs waystation so as little as three milkweeks, and that would be the key here is the `milkweed`. The monarch butterfly is one of the animals that never adapted to any other host plant other than the milkweed. So their larva can only feed on milkweed and we've lost millions of acres of milkweed habitat. 

So the first thing you would want to do is to understand your regional milkweeds and even an `assortment` of milkweeds is a good idea-- that you have one to back up the other. So when you put in several different varieties of milkweed then you're blooming at a certain time and your larva are coming in at a certain time-- when the monarchs are flying north, it's crucial for them to have the milkweed in Texas. We're in the Central Texas fly-way and our milkweed habitat determines what that summer breeding populations going to be so it will have an effect. In the fall, the other thing you want to do is have a couple `nectar` plants and the reason for this is that monarchs need to sustain themselves over several months in the winter so they need those fat contents. Right and when they're actually migrating back to the south of us, they need that `nectar` as well. Absolutely right. So you meantioned milkweeds and actually people now are marketing what they call milkweed bombs and things like that. It's really become quite a national sensation which is very encouraging I think. It has and we're really hoping-- I mean a lot of native plant sales now, are beginning to provide milkweed on the planet sales, the difficulty is finding and propagating milkweed seed. It's not an easy thing to propagate but once it's in the ground you never have to worry about it again. So there are seeds and plants available at native plants sales, I know that Wildflower Garden is putting a plant sale on, you can get seed from American Seed Injunction and once you're milkweed is in the ground it is `perennial`, it will go underground for brief time during the summer and re-emerge in the fall. Its blooms are great `nectar` plants, in addition. So at least three of those in any container even, would be sufficient. Real briefly, how do people get involved with the Native Plant Society? Well you could go right directly to the website which is www.npsot.org you could find a chapter in your area, there are some 47 chapters currently so there'll be a chapter in your area. Some of these chapters even bring visitors to your home to tell you what you have there and what might be useful for you to use. Okay well and we `applaud` your efforts and I hope people will be adopting native plants and procreating those waystations in their backyards. It's always great to talk about native plants. Thanks so much for sharing your information with us. Thank you for having me. Alright Cathy, and coming up next is our friend Daphne. 