https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsVh11spNAk
3:18
```
foe             n. 敌人，对头     
hostile         adj. 敌对的，怀敌意的；强烈反对的；敌人的，敌方的；艰苦的，不利的；不受（被购公司）欢迎的
onwards         adv. 向前；在前面
maritime        adj. 海上的，海事的；近海的，沿海的；海生的，在海里发现的；海洋性气候的
benevolent      adj. 仁慈的，乐善好施的；（用于慈善机构名称）慈善的，救济的  
```
With Friends Like These: The Germans

During the long centuries when France was Britain's most dangerous `foe`, the German states were this country's natural `allies`. The historical links between Britain and Germany were strong, and it was only when Germany `unified` and became a potential threat that attitudes changed. There were also strong dynastic connections. From onwards, the Kings of England were also the rulers of the German state of Hanover. As France attempted to expand their national territory into the Low Countries and Germany, Britain's efforts to oppose this found many allies amongst the German states, the most powerful of which was Prussia, a vital ally both during the War of the Spanish Succession and the Seven Years War. German troops were also important during the American War of Independence, when more than , fought alongside the British. In the wars against Napoleon, the Kings German Legion was a highly regarded part of the British Army, while Prussia, along with other German states, was a key ally. Without the support of Prussian troops, Wellington might well have lost the battle of Waterloo. 

The defeat of Napoleon helped `kindle` German nationalism and the drive for `unification`. Britain's royal and cultural links with Germany helped ensure that the general attitude towards this was largely `benevolent`. It was only after, when Prussia defeated France and unified the country, that this altered. German expansionism and particularly the building of a large navy threatened British maritime supremacy. This helped push Britain into alliance first with France, then with Russia and paved the way for World War One. During the interwar years, the belief that the Treaty of Versailles had been too harsh towards Germany, gradually gave way to renewed fear as Hitler vastly expanded the German military. Once again, the balance of power was destabilised as one hostile nation threatened to dominate the `Continent`. Serious foreign policy failures led to Britain entering the war with only one major ally – France. And when France was defeated, the country was dangerously alone, until Russia, and then the United States, were attacked and joined the fight as allies against the Axis powers. After the war, Britain, with France and the United States, occupied West Germany and then provided troops to protect the country against the threat of Russian invasion. In recent years, British and German troops have worked alongside each other on international `humanitarian` missions and in the war against terror. 