https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9mLdo4uMJUU

```  
overwhelming  
acclaim    v. 赞扬，称赞，为……喝彩
fuse       n. 保险丝，熔丝；导火线，引信
frail      adj. 脆弱的；虚弱的      
dispel     vt. 驱散，驱逐；消除（烦恼等）  
fascinate  
vogue     n. 流行，时尚，时髦    
boredom  
exemplary   adj. 典范的，优异的；惩戒性的，严厉的；<法律>（损害赔偿）惩罚性（超额赔偿）的；典范的，值得效仿的  
dull     dj. 枯燥无聊的；无精打采的；不明亮的；（声音）不清晰的；阴沉的；不明显的，隐隐的；钝的；迟钝的，愚笨的；萧条的    
disparage    v. 贬低；抨击，诋毁  
reconcile   v. 调和，使协调一致；（使）和解，（使）恢复友好关系；调停，调解（争吵）；使顺从于，使接受；核对，查核（账目）  
descend     v. 下来，下降；下倾，下斜；降临，来临；（情绪、气氛等）笼罩；突然到来，突然造访；降低身份，堕落；衰落，陷入；遗传
compelling   adj. 引人注目的；令人信服的；非常强烈的；不可抗拒的
clue  
aristocrat   n. 贵族  
beloved  
coincide  
puddle     n. 水坑，泥潭；胶土（由粘土与水和成，不透水  
mediocre    adj. 普通的；平凡的；中等的
involuntary   adj. 无意识的；自然而然的；不知不觉的
pivot      n. 枢轴；中心点；中心；旋转运动；基准兵；中锋；（篮球）持球转身策应
dawn  
indolent    adj. 懒惰的；无痛的
lampoon     v. 公开讽刺，挖苦  
prompt    
```

LITERATURE - Marcel Proust

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Marcel Proust was an early 20th century French writer responsible for what's officially the longest novel in the world: "A la recherche du temps perdu" In search of Lost Time. which has 1.2 million words in it, double those in "War and Peace" . The book was published in French in 7 volumes over 14 years, and was immediately recognized to be a masterpiece, ranked by many as the greatest novel of the century, or, simply, of all time. What makes it so special is that it isn’t just a novel in the straight narrative sense. it's a work that `intersperses` `genius` level descriptions of people and places with the whole philosophy of life. The clue is in the title: "In search of lost time". The book tells the story of one man a thinly `disguised` version of Proust himself, in his ongoing search for the meaning and purpose of life it `recounts` his `quest` to stop wasting time and to start to appreciate existence. Marcel Proust wanted his book to help us above all. His father, Adrien Proust, had been one of the great doctors of his age responsible for `wiping out cholera` in France. towards the end of his life, his `frail`, `indolent` son Marcel, who had lived on his inheritance and had disappointed his family by never taking up a regular job told his housekeeper Celeste if only I could to humanity as much good with my books as my father did with his work. the good news is that he `amply` succeeded Proust’s novel charts the narrator’s systematic exploration of three possible sources of the meaning of life. 

the first is social success. Proust was born into a comparable `bourgeois` household, but from his teens, he began to think that the meaning of life might lie in joining high society, which in his day meant, the world of `aristocrats`, of dukes, duchesses and princes. but if you convert this to the present day, that would mean celebrities. For years, the narrator devotes his energies to working his way up the social hierarchy and because he’s charming and `erudite`, he eventually becomes friends with lynchpins of Parisian high society the Duke and Duchesse de Guermantes. But a troubling realisation soon dawns on him These people are not the extraordinary `paragons` he imagined they would be. The Duc’s conversation is boring and crass. The Duchesse, though well mannered, is cruel and vain Marcel tires of them and their circle. He realises that virtues and vices are scattered throughout the population `without regard to` income or renown He grows free to devote himself to a wider range of people Though Proust spends many pages `lampooning` social `snobbery` it’s in a spirit of understanding and underlying sympathy it's a highly natural error, especially when one is young. to suspect that there might be a class of superior people somewhere out there in the world and that our lives might be dull principally because we don't have the right contacts. But Proust’s novel offers us definitive reassurance: life is not going on elsewhere there is no party with the perfect people are. 

The second thing that Proust’s narrator investigates in his quest for the meaning of life is love In the second volume of the novel the narrator goes off to the seaside with his grandmother to the `vogueish` resort of Cabourg (the Barbados of the times) There he develops an overwhelming crush on a beautiful teenage girl called Albertine She has short hair, a boyish smile and a charming, casual way of speaking. For about 300 pages, all the narrator can think about is Albertine The meaning of life surely must lie in loving her. But with time, here too, there’s disappointment. The moment comes when the narrator is finally allowed to kiss Albertine. Man, a creature clearly less `rudimentary` than the sea-urchin or even the whale nevertheless lacks a certain number of essential organs and particularly possesses none that will serve for kissing For this absent organ, he substitutes his lips and perhaps he thereby achieves a result slightly more satisfying than caressing his beloved with a horny tusk. The ultimate promise of love, in Proust’s eyes is that we can stop being alone and properly fuse our life with that of another person who will understand every part of us. But the novel comes to darker conclusions. no one can fully understand anyone. Loneliness is endemic. We’re awkward, lonely `pilgrims` trying to give each tusk-kisses in the dark. This brings us to the third and only successful candidate for the meaning of life: ART For Proust, the great artists deserve `acclaim` because they show us the world in a way that is fresh, appreciative, and alive The opposite of art for Proust is something he calls habit For Proust, much of life is ruined for us by a blanket or `shroud` of familiarity that descends between us and everything that matters. habit dulls our senses and stops us appreciating everything from the beauty of a sunset to our work and our friends. Children don’t suffer from habit which is why they get excited by some very key but simple things like `puddles`, jumping on the bed, sand and fresh bread. But we adults get spoilt about everthing which is why we seek ever more powerful stimulants (like fame and love) The trick, in Proust’s eyes is to recover the powers of appreciation of a child in adulthood to strip the veil of habit and therefore to start to appreciate daily life with a new sensitivity This for Proust is what one group in the population does all the time. artists. Artists are people who know how to strip habit away and return life to its true deserved glory for example, when they show us water lilies or service stations or buildings in a new light. Proust’s goal isn’t that we should necessarily make art or be someone who hangs out in museums all the time. the idea is to get us to look at the world, our world with some of the same generosity as an artist which would mean taking pleasure in simple things like water, the sky or a `shaft` of light on a piece of paper. It’s no coincidence that Proust’s favourite painter was Vermeer a painter who knew how to bring out the charm and the value of the everyday. the spirit of Vermeer hangs over his novel it too is committed to the project of `reconciling` us to the ordinary circumstances of life and some of Proust’s most compelling pieces of writing describe the charm with the everyday like reading in a train driving at night, smelling the flowers in spring time and looking at the changing light of the sun on the sea. Proust is famous for having written about the `dainty` little cakes the French call ‘madeleines’ The reason has to do with his thesis about art and habit Early on in the novel, the narrator tells us that he'd been feeling depressed and sad for a long while when one day he had a cup of herbal tea and a `madeleine` and suddenly the taste carried him powerfully back (in the way that flavours sometimes can) to years in his childhood when as a small boy he spent his summers in his aunt’s house in french countryside. A stream of memories comes back to him, and fills him with hope and gratitude Thanks to the madeleine, Proust’s narrator has what has since become known as A PROUSTIAN MOMENT a moment of sudden `involuntary` and intense remembering when the past `promptly` emerges unbidden from a smell, a taste or a texture Through its rich `evocative` power what the Proustian moment teaches us is that life isn’t necessarily `dull` and without excitement it's just one forgets to look at it in the right way we forget what being alive fully alive, actually feels like. The moment with the tea is `pivotal` in the novel because it demonstrates everything Proust wants to teach us about appreciating life with greater intensity. it helps as narrator to realize that it isn’t his life which has been `mediocre` so much as the image of it he possessed in normal, that is voluntary memory. Proust writes 'The reason why life may be judged to be trivial although at certain moments it seems to us so beautiful is that we form our judgment ordinarily not on the evidence of life itself but in its quite different images which preserve nothing of life and therefore we judge it `disparagingly`'. that's why artists are so important Their work is like one long Proustian moment they remind us that life truly is beautiful, fascinating and complex and thereby they `dispel` our `boredom` and our ingratitude. Proust’s philosophy of art is delivered in a book which is itself `exemplary` of what he’s saying It's a work of art that brings the beauty and interest of the world back to life. Reading it, your senses are reawakened a thousand things you normally forget to notice are brought to your attention. he makes you for a time, as clever and as sensitive as he was and for this reason alone, we should be sure to read him and 1.2 million words he assembled for us thereby learn to appreciate existence before it's too late. 