https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L9HOEG7heHU&ab_channel=AmericanExperience%7CPBS

```
bare     adj. 空的；赤裸的，无遮蔽的
ominous   adj. 预兆的；不吉利的
enigma    n. 谜，不可思议的东西
chink      n. 裂缝；叮当声；裂口
intercept    vt. 拦截；截断；窃听   
intricate    adj. 错综复杂的；难理解的，难学会的
```

Elizebeth vs. Enigma | The Codebreaker | American Experience | PBS

The unsolved messages piled up. Elizebeth suspected that the codes were being generated by a highly complex machine called the “Enigma” – used by the German Intelligence Services. There were several models of the Enigma. The British were using a newly-invented decoding device to crack into the version used by the German military. The machine Elizebeth was facing was slightly less `intricate` – but not by much. Her tools were still only pencil and paper. Day after day she waded through the messages. After two months, she spotted a `chink` in the Enigma’s armor. She intercepted a cache of 28 messages all sent in the same key — a careless mistake made by the spies. The breakthrough enabled her to make `inroads` into the machine's system. She lined up the messages one below the other in a technique called solving “in depth.” 

[Vince Houghton:] When you solve in-depth and you put your papers next to each other or one on top of the other and you’re looking at what is the first letter in each of these messages, what is the second letter in each of these messages? Once you have the knowledge that you’re dealing with the same key every day, then you can actually start breaking down words and understanding what letters are turning into others. 

[Amy Butler Greenfield:] I think that Elizebeth would be the first to say that you are always looking for the mistake that the other side is making. You find a little `doorway` that’s been left open just a `smidge` and that’s where you attack and that’s where you go in. 

[Narrator:] Finally, she was able to follow Sargo’s activities again. The decrypted messages laid `bare` `ominous` new developments in South America. [Butler Greenfield:] There is a `coup` in Argentina, a fascist coup, in the summer of 1943. At the end of that, Sargo is really on the inside. In Bolivia, again, he is working with people who want to turn the government toward the Nazis, and in December of 1943, lo and behold there’s a fascist coup in Bolivia. And this is scary stuff for the United States. 

[Houghton:] The fear is that the Germans will start a front in South America. This could be a dramatic game-changer that could make it very difficult for us to fight the war overseas because we’d be worried about fighting the war at home. 

[Narrator:] From her tiny office in Washington, Elizebeth shadowed Sargo’s every move. Any which way they turned, his spies were `outflanked`. [Houghton:] In the end Elizebeth is able to give information to the Allies which allows them to break up the spy ring and do it in such a way that the Germans have no idea that the spy ring was broken up because their codes had been broken. 