https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RhP-HdZJkIY 

23:06

```
moral       adj. 有关道德的；基于道德的，道义上的；品行端正的，有道德的；伦理的；能辨别是非的
assure      vt. 保证；担保；使确信；弄清楚
propel      v. 推进，驱动；推搡（某人走向特定方向）； 驱使，促使
viable      adj. 可望成功的，切实可行的；能存活的，能生长发育的
veto        n. 否决权
overpass    n. 立交桥，高架桥，天桥
gadget      n. 小器具，小玩意儿
franchise   n. 特许经营权；获特许经营权的企业（商店）；公民权，选举权；<美，非正式>职业运动队；<美>（由运动联合会授予的）会员运动队拥有权；特许经营品牌（或创意）        
denounce    v. 谴责，痛斥；检举，告发
fascinate   v. 深深吸引，迷住；深深吸引，迷住；<旧>（尤指蛇）以眼神震慑（人，动物），使无法动弹
fare        n. 交通费用；乘客；饭菜；常见的东西；供大众使用的东西（尤指娱乐活动）  
integrate   v. （使）合并，成为一体；（使）加入，融入群体；（使）取消种族隔离；求……的积分；表示（面积、温度等）的总和，表示……的平均值  
boredom     n. 厌倦；令人厌烦的事物
detriment   n. 损害，伤害；造成损害（或损伤）的事物        
dwindle     vi. 减少；变小  
utter       adj. 完全的，彻底的 v. 说，讲；发出（声音）；使用（伪钞）；发射
apprentice  n. 学徒；生手
accord      n. 协议，条约；符合，一致
courtship   n. 求爱；求婚；求爱期  
libel       n. 诽谤罪；诋毁；毁坏名誉的东西；控诉书
aviation    n. 航空；飞行术；飞机制造业
averse      adj. 反对的；不愿意的
consult     v. 咨询，请教；商量，商讨；查询，查阅；当顾问      
vehement    adj. 激烈的，猛烈的；热烈的
striking    adj. 惊人的，异常的；妩媚动人的，标致的；罢工的；打击的
intrigue    v. 激起……的兴趣，引发……的好奇心；密谋  
beloved     adj. 钟爱的，深受爱戴的
streamline  vt. 把…做成流线型；使现代化；组织；使合理化；使简单化
league      n. 联盟；（体育项目）联合会，联赛；级别，水平；里格（旧时长度单位，约等于5公里）  
highland    n. 高地；丘陵地带    
recalcitrant   adj. 反抗的；反对的；顽强的  
pitch       n. 运动场地；程度；音高；推销行话；倾斜度；沥青；投球；街头摆摊处；颠簸；螺距
obsess      v. 使着迷，使心神不宁；挂牵，念念不忘
urge        v. 敦促，催促，力劝；竭力主张，强烈要求；驱赶，鞭策；鼓励，激励（~ sb. on）
```

==========

`Henry Ford`: The Complicated Captain of Industry 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

Henry Ford was an American success story. Through his `dogged` `persistence`, engineering brilliance and innovative production techniques he brought an affordable motor vehicle to the masses, creating an empire in the process. Yet there were other aspects of the man that didn’t fit comfortably into the American icon image. From his anti-Semitism to his `vehement` opposition to unions, Henry Ford was a man who defied description. In this today’s Biographic we get up close and personal with Henry Ford. 

Early Years. 
Henry Ford was born on July 30th, 1863 in Greenfield Township, Michigan. He was the oldest of five children to William and Mary Ford. William was an Irish immigrant while Mary was a first generation American of Belgian heritage. The Ford family were middle class farmers. Henry was particularly close to his mother, who he adored. The children worked hard to help their father to perform the day’s labor. Henry `pitched in` enthusiastically, though he never enjoyed the work. He later commented . . . I never had any particular love for the farm—it was the mother on the farm I loved. Henry disliked school, much preferring to study on his own terms. He had a huge amount of curiosity mixed with his creativity. By the time he had reached his teens, Henry was obsessed with `gadgets`. He had a habit of taking watches apart and then put them back together again. He did this over and over again until he could do it in a matter of minutes. His reputation as a watch `repairman` grew and soon he was maintaining the timepieces of everyone in the neighborhood. When he was thirteen, Henry saw a steam powered motor vehicle for the first time. He was fascinated with it and instantly recognized its potential to replace the horse as the main means of transportation. From that point on he was obsessed with `automobiles`. 

Out on His Own. 
A short while after the encounter with the vehicle, Henry’s `beloved` mother died suddenly. Naturally, he was heart-broken. From that point on, he wanted to get off the farm as it held too many memories. His opportunity came three years later, when he was offered his first job. He moved to Detroit to become an `apprentice` machinist for James F. Flower and Brothers, who made machine parts. He later moved to the Detroit Dry Dock Company. By night he worked at a watch repair company in order to pay his rent. Any spare time that he had, he’d spend on mechanical experiments. In 1882, at the age of 19, Henry returned to family farm to help his father. He still hated farming, but he loved `tinkering` with the farm machinery. His father had purchased a Westinghouse portable steam engine and Henry made it is mission to perfect the use of it. He became so good on the machine that he managed to get a summer job at the Westinghouse Electric Company in Detroit. He demonstrated and repaired steam engines used to power heavy machinery. 

Family Man. 
When he turned 21, Henry’s father gifted him with a sizeable `parcel` of land. He now split his time between working the land, demonstrating Westinghouse machines and studying part time for a bookkeeping `diploma`. In early 1888 he met a young woman by the name of Clara Jane Bryant. After a short courtship, the couple were married on April 11th. Five years later their first and only child, Edsel was born. Ford now had a family to look after. He made ends meet by cutting down and selling the timber on his land. Within a year, he set up a `sawmill`, which became `moderately` profitable. He built a mechanical workshop on the farm and continued tinkering on heavy machinery. Henry had been brought up in a Christian household. Now that he was a family man, he seemed to take religion more seriously. Every Sunday he made an eight-mile round trip to attend the nearest Episcopalian church. He came to believe in `reincarnation`, which was not an Episcopalian concept. Rather than finding another church, however, he simply added it to his own personal belief system. He had an `evangelizing` spirit, enjoying sharing his beliefs with others. About his religious beliefs he wrote . . . Religion, like everything else, is a thing that should be kept working. I see no use in spending a great deal of time learning about heaven and hell. In my opinion, man makes his own heaven and hell and carries it around with him. Both of them are states of mind. 

The `Petrol` Engine. 
In 1885 Ford was tasked with fixing an Otto engine, a large stationary single-cylinder internal combustion four-stroke engine designed by the German Nikolaus Otto. After pulling it apart and analyzing every component he put it back into working form and then proceeded to make his own version of it. By 1890 he was working on a petrol-powered engine. In September 1891, Henry `secured` a position at the Edison Illuminating Company in Detroit. He and Clara moved to the city to make a new life. Within two years, Ford was promoted to the position of Chief Engineer. Along with the promotion came a `substantial` pay rise. This provided the means to work on his petrol engine when he wasn’t working for Thomas Edison. In 1896, the countless evenings tinkering in his home workshop finally paid off with the `unveiling` of his first `self-propelled` vehicle. He called it the Ford Quadricycle. He presented his protype to Edison company executives, including Thomas Edison himself. Edison was `intrigued` and `delighted` with Ford’s invention. Encouraged by the praise of his boss, Ford developed a mark two model, with numerous improvements. Ford’s newer and better Quadricycle caught the attention of a Detroit lumber baron by the name of William H Murphy. Murphy put his money being the young inventor, allowing Henry to resign from Edison and start his own company. He called it the Detroit Automobile Company. Investors wanted to capitalize on Ford’s petrol motor as quickly as possible. They pressured him to rush production. As a result, the vehicles produced were of a lower quality and a higher price than Ford was happy with. Having produced just twenty automobiles, the company was `dissolved` in January, 1901. Ford was more relieved than `deterred` with the closure of the Detroit Automobile Company. With the pressure to produce no longer on him, he put his efforts into designing and building a 26-horsepower automobile in October, 1901. In order to get publicity for his invention, he began entering racing competitions. After soundly beating the local champion in a 10 miles race, he won back the confidence of his investors. They were prepared to back a second company, and so the Ford Motor Company was born, with Henry as Chief Engineer. However, the same tensions developed as previously. When the investors brought in a `consultant` to check Henry’s focus on technological improvement, he left the company. The new man, Henry Leland, went on to create his own vehicle, the `Cadillac` and the company was renamed the Cadillac Automobile Company. 

The Ford Motor Company Ford. 
now teamed up with a former cycle racing champion named Tom Cooper. Together they produced an 80 plus horsepower vehicle which they dubbed the ‘999’. This car was raced by top racer Barry Oldfield to a `resounding` victory in an October, 1902 race. With this success under his belt, Ford entered into a third company. He teamed up with a coal dealer from Detroit named Alexander Malcolmson to form Ford and Malcolmson Ltd. He now set about making an affordable automobile for the working man. Ford and Malcolmson found a factory and got to work. They contracted the Dodge brothers, John and Horace, who owned a local machine shop, to produce all the parts they needed. Within a year, Ford had his new, affordable vehicle. The challenge now was to sell it. Initial sales were slow which led to a cash flow crisis. New investors were brought onboard and the company was reincorporated as the Ford Motor Company June, 1903. Ford’s new, economical automobile was put to the challenge on the ice-covered surface of Lake St. Clair, between Michigan and Ontario. It achieved a new land speed record of 91.3 miles per hour (146.9 kilometres per hour). Barry Oldfield then toured the country to demonstrate the car. This publicity brought the name of Henry Ford to a wide audience. Sales of Ford’s new car steadily grew. By 1905, the company was thriving. Ford were the only car manufacturer who were catering to the middle classes. Because of Ford, the automobile was no longer a plaything for the rich. Now it was able to be seen as a `viable` means of transport for everybody. 

The Model T 
In October 1908, Ford released the famous Model T. This `streamlined` vehicle had a number of innovative features including having `the steering wheel` on the left, an entirely enclosed transmission engine, four cylinders cast in solid block and a pair of semi-elliptic `suspension` springs. The Model T was easier than anything else on the market to drive and inexpensive to repair. With the Model T, Ford introduced the assembly line production process. He wasn’t the first to use assembly line production procedures, but he did refine it to make it as efficient, and therefore cost effective as possible. Rather than having a group of employees working on a single vehicle, Ford set up a `conveyor` system, where the car moved from one station to another. At each station a highly skilled worker would focus on just one aspect of construction. That worker would repeat the same job over and over. This process cut down the time to produce a Model T from twelve to six hours. As a result of these improved practices, Ford was able to sell his Model T at the unheard-of price of $895 ($23,010 today), which was less than half of what other manufacturers were selling their vehicles at. As the assembly line process was streamlined, the price of the Model T came down even further. By 1912 it was down to $575. On the strength of the massive popularity of the Model T, Ford was able to take a 48 percent share of the US automobile market in 1914. In 1913, a multi-story factory was built in `Highland Park`. Assembly of the Model T would begin on the fourth floor with the engine. Then it would move down floor by floor until the body was added on the ground floor. Ford set up a network of Model T `franchises` all over the country. Salesmen sold not only the affordable car but also the concept of vehicle travel and the opportunities that came with it. With the Model T the country would be opened up to the masses with all the wonders that it held in store. Ford was determined that his buyers would become loyal Ford customers for life. As a result, he offered an unheard-of guarantee. When you bought a Model T, the Ford factory would stand behind you, maintaining it at most affordable price possible. 

The Living Wage 
Ford was a firm believer in `welfare` capitalism. He wanted to maintain a happy workforce who were treated fairly. As a result, he introduced innovative programs and benefits for his staff. In 1914, he introduced the living wage, where each worker received a minimum of $5 per day. This would be the equivalent of $120 in 2019 terms. This was almost double the pay that most other companies were offering. `One reason that Ford brought in the living wage was that, prior its introduction, his factories had a very high employee turnover rate.` Some departments number a hundred men would turn over thirty employees a year. This was largely due to the `monotony` of the production line process. Now, the increased pay would offset the `boredom` of the job. The living wage allowed Ford to attract the best mechanics in Detroit. Other companies were forced to also raise their wages or lose their top workers. Ford did other things to ensure a happy work force. His factories had cafeterias, water fountains, health care and company-sponsored sports teams. The benefits that Ford brought to his workforce came with some strings attached. He expected his workers to live clean lives `in accord with` Christian `moral` principles. He established a Social Department which kept a close eye on the private lives of his employees. Anyone who was seen to be over-drinking, gambling or not providing adequately for their family would be subjected to an intervention. Meanwhile sales of the Model T were going from strength to strength. A drop in the price of the basic touring car to $360 saw sales reaching 472,000 in 1916. Every one of those cars were painted black, that being the color that dried fastest on the assembly line. This led Ford to `utter` the famous line . . . Any customer can have a car painted any color he wants so long as it is black. 

The Peace Ship 
Ford was completely opposed to US participation in World War One. He was a `pacifist` who was offended by other businessmen who profited from war trade. In 1915, he teamed up with Hungarian-born Jewish pacifist Rosika Schwimmer and funded a Peace Ship to travel to Europe and advocate for an end to the fighting. 170 leading pacifists boarded the ship and headed, along with Ford and Schwimmer to the Netherlands and then on to Sweden. The voyage did not have official US government blessing and it soon became the subject of intense `ridicule`. Ford decided to distance himself from the enterprise, left the ship and made his own independent way back to the US. Around this time, Ford began to make public his anti-Semitic beliefs. He claimed that the war had been started by German-Jewish bankers and that he was collecting information that would make that fact clear. Despite its founder’s pacifist and anti-semitic `sentiments`, the Ford Motor Company was pressed into producing engines for fighter planes and anti-submarine boats once the US entered the war in 1917. In 1918, at the `urging` of President Woodrow Wilson, Ford ran for the Senate Seat in Michigan. Ford was an advocate of `Wilson’s League of Nations` and the president felt that, if Ford won in Michigan, it could tip the scale in his favor in Congress. He told Ford . . . You are the only man in Michigan who can be elected and help bring about the peace you so desire. Ford ran but lost out by 4,500 votes. Still he remained a `staunch` advocate of the League of Nations. 

Controversial Views 
A month after the end of the war, in December 1919, Ford handed the `reins` of the Ford Motor Company to his son Edsel, who was now 26 years of age. However, the father retained the right to `veto` any decision. In 1918, Ford had purchased a small newspaper called the Dearborn Independent. Every Ford factory issued the paper to its employees. `Throughout the 1920’s Ford used this paper as the vehicle for disseminating his anti-Semitic views.` He believed that an international Jewish conspiracy was working to take control of the world. Between 1920-22, he published a multi-volume work titled The International Jew. Historians believe that these books were an influence on Adolf Hitler’s worldview. During the war years, Ford worked with his son to take the Ford Motor Company to the rest of the world. A massive complex was built at River Rouge, in Dearborn, Michigan. This was the world’s largest industrial complex at that time. By 1929, he had thriving `dealerships` on all six continents. Ford wanted to his business to become a vertical integration company. This meant that every aspect of supply for the company would be owned by the company. This meant that the company wouldn’t have to rely upon on any suppliers, especially not foreign suppliers. On May 31st, 1929, Ford signed a nine-year technical assistance agreement with the Soviet Government. Ford would help the Soviets set up an automobile plant, and the Soviets would purchase $30 million worth of knocked down Ford trucks and cars. Ford sent his best servicemen to the Soviet factory to train the Russians. 

The Model A 
By the mid 1920’s, the Model T’s sales were `dwindling`. Competitors were producing competing models, some of them with more powerful motors and better features. It was time for a new model to roll off the production lines. The Model A Ford was released in 1927. The car was available in a range of styles including Sports Coupe, Truck and Commercial. Unlike the Model T, it was available in four colors. The Model A was another hit for Ford, with sales to 1931 topping 4 million. By 1932, one third of all automobiles throughout the world were made by the Ford Motor Company. In the late 1920’s, Ford began building airplanes. The most popular was the Ford 4AT Trimotor, commonly known as the ‘Tin Goose.’ Ford was honored by the Smithsonian Institution for changing `the aviation industry.` 

Union Opposition 
Henry Ford hated labor unions. He was of the opinion that they served only the self interest of labor bosses and were `detrimental` to workers. He felt that he was perfectly able to look after the interests of his works and saw no need for unions on his sites. In order to scare off union activity, Ford employed a former Navy boxer Harry Bennett to head his Service Department. Bennett was not `averse` to using violence to `squash` union activity. On one occasion, he had his men beat up United Auto Workers representatives as the police looked on. This incident, which became known as `the Battle of the Overpass`, was widely reported. It hurt Ford’s reputation and increased support for the union. Edsel Ford recognized that there was need for a collective `bargaining` agreement with the unions. However, his father vetoed the idea of even talking to the unions. In April, 1941 there was a sit-down `strike` which closed down the River Rouge plant. Ford prepared to shut down his entire business rather than deal with the union. It was only the intervention of his long-suffering wife, Clara, that brought him to his senses. With the `recalcitrance` of the old man out of the way, Edsel managed to sign an agreement with the United Auto Workers union in June 1941. 

Anti-Semitism 
Ford’s obsession with blaming the Jews for the world’s ills intensified over the years. His newspaper, The Dearborn Independent, published 91 consecutive article `deriding` Jews. Jewish leaders responded by calling for boycotts of Ford’s cars. In 1927, he was sued for `libel`. The case was settled out of court. Shortly thereafter Ford agreeing to shut down production of his newspaper. In the early 1920’s, Ford had been given a copy of a book called the Protocol of the Elders of Zion, which had been produced by the Russian Tsar’s secret service in the early 1900’s. It painted a `damning` picture of the supposed worldwide Jewish conspiracy. Ford believed every word of it. However, within a few years it had been exposed as a fake. When Ford learned of this he was horrified and offered an `apology` to the Jewish community, `assuring` them of his future ‘friendship and goodwill.’ Despite these words, Ford continued to `denounce` Jews throughout the 1930’s. He did business with Nazi Germany up to and including the war years. At the same time, he produced B-24 bombers for the US military. Ford is the only American mentioned favorably in Mein Kampf. Speaking in 1931 to a Detroit News reporter, Hitler said he regarded Ford as his "inspiration", explaining his reason for keeping Ford's life-size portrait next to his desk. Hitler "revered" Ford, stating that "I shall do my best to put his theories into practice in Germany", and modeling the `Volkswagen` on the Model T. 

Final Years 
In May, 1943, 49-year-old Edsel Ford died of stomach cancer. Henry, now aged eighty was forced to run the company once more. Yet, he was not a well man, having already suffered from a series of strokes and heart attacks. He was at the `helm` for two years, at which point he handed the reins over to his grandson Henry Ford II. Henry’s Ford’s retirement was short-lived. He died of a `cerebral` `hemorrhage` on April 7th, 1947 at his Dearborn estate. A hundred thousand people showed up at his funeral to honor the man who had brought private transportation to the masses. 