https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mrKOBmeG5zY

```  
incessant            adj. 不断的；不停的；连续的
mourning             n. 伤逝，哀悼；丧服；沉痛哀悼之情；恸哭（某些国家的人为哀悼死者而作的大声痛哭）
genuine              adj. 真正的，非伪造的；真诚的，真心的
turbulent            adj. 骚乱的，动乱的；（气流）湍流的，（水）湍急的； 骚动的，混乱而难以控制的；（技）（与）紊流（有关）的，（与）湍流（有关）的
counterproductive    adj. 反生产的；使达不到预期目标的
peculiar             adj. 奇怪的，不寻常的，罕见的；特别的，特有的；不舒服
```

How Dreading the Future May Be a Symptom of Your Past

One common kind of mental illness (which doesn’t present itself as an illness to us of course, it’s far too clever for that) leads us to worry `incessantly` about the future: to worry about bankruptcy, disgrace, physical collapse, abandonment. What is `pernicious` about this kind of worrying is that it picks up on genuine features of the here and now; it presents itself as reasonable but, on closer examination, it clearly isn’t. There are always a few alarming things going on: there is some `turbulence` in the economy, there can be things that go wrong with bodies, reputations do rise and fall… But what should eventually alert us to the `peculiarity` of our position is the duration, scale and repetitiveness of our worries: we should learn to see that we are essentially worried all the time about something. The target may shift, but what is constant is our insecurity about existence. It is in such situations that a therapist may make a hugely useful intervention: they may point out that the way we worry about the future is in fact telling us a huge amount about our past. More specifically, we are worried right now in a way that mirrors the panic we once felt as children; we are greeting the challenges of the adult world with the `defenceless` panic of the child we once were. What we are doing in the process is exchanging the pain of remembering the difficult past for a sense of `foreboding` around the future; the catastrophe we fear is going to happen has already happened. So `sealed off` are our memories, we project them forward, where they greet us as apprehensions of what is to come - rather than identifying themselves as `legacies` of `unmasterable` past anxiety. The good therapist becomes aware of the correct source of the anxiety - and doesn’t let go of their insight. They will listen politely and generously to our description of our current panic - what will happen in our job? Have we studied enough? What if our enemies gang up on us? But then they will gently try to shift the conversation to the past, to show us that the future looks so fearful because we are being `counterproductively` loyal to the `terrors` of an earlier age, which we now need to remember, to feel sad about and then eventually to `mourn` and move on from. We should be disloyal to those who brought us up in an atmosphere of fear in order to save what remains of life from always appearing doom-laden: we may be trying to stay close to them by continuing to panic alongside them, but we owe it to ourselves to break the circle of worry and to make our future different from the past, by remembering, localising and `mourning` what belonged to yesterday even as it pretends to be about tomorrow. 