https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vW2nFd3i2bo 

```
vulgar    adj. 粗俗的，庸俗的，不雅的；（笑话、评论、动作等）下流的；（人）粗鲁的，无礼的；平民的，通俗语言的
norm      n. 标准，规范
sanction   n. 制裁；处罚，惩罚；（正式）许可，批准；<史>（尤指基督教会的）法令，法律；（伦理学）约束力；支持，鼓励
compose    v. 组成，构成；作曲；撰写（信、诗或演讲稿）；使镇静，使平静；为（照片、图像）构图；排版，排稿  vi. 组成；作曲；排字
```

Introduction to Sociology - Culture 

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

All right, in this unit we're going to talk about culture. First, what is culture? Where does it come from? And how do we know what it is; how do we learn it? Culture is the learned and shared behaviors, beliefs, attitudes, and values that characterize a particular society. People who have studied culture for a long time have basically discussed it in the following ways: culture is shared, we learn it from other people, it's `transmitted` from one generation to the next, and it's always changing. We tend to look at our current society and say, "This is the way things have always been." But, historically we can look back and see the evolution of culture over time. Think about how T.V. has changed over time. The kinds of things that we see on T.V. are `tremendously` different from what people watched on T.V. in the 1950s and 1960s. Culture is `composed` of two main parts. There is the material culture, the things that are created by the people who live in a society. When we look at ancient societies, we see the `artifacts` that are left behind. That's part of their culture. We learn about how they interact with each other because of the things they left behind. And there is also the non-material culture. It's the attitudes, and the beliefs, and the symbols that represent something that is only understood by people in that culture. For example, when I do this in America, it means peace. In some societies, it means victory. In other societies, it's actually a `vulgar` gesture. Each society has a different interpretation of what this gesture means. And that's what culture is. It's the shared interpretation of things that are created or things that symbolize the culture. Culture is also about those set of rules that explain how people in that culture should act. There are three types of rules. These rules are called `norms`, the way we should act. The first is the `folkway`. It's the it's the minor violations that if you violate these these rules, people are maybe disappointed but not very angry about it. The second level of norm is called the `mores`. It's the thing that is much more serious, that people would be much more upset about, but you won't get arrested for doing these things. The last type of norm is called the law. Violating these rules will result in the government, the police arresting you, `trying you in a court`, and sending you to prison or punishing you `somehow`. All of these norms describe how people should behave in a culture. And if you violate these norms, even the minors ones, people will react to them somehow. They will `sanction` you, either by congratulating you for doing a good job, a positive sanction. Or if someone is disappointed in your behavior, they can treat you with a negative sanction, some kind of punishment. The goal there would be to have you not commit that violation again. So culture defines the things that we do in the society. It also defines the rules that we have to follow to live in the society. If we don't follow the rules, we'll get `sanctioned` or punished for violating the rules. All right, go ahead and read the material in this in this unit and make sure that you use the resources I provided for you as well. All right, good luck. 