https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_DsAtCF8RvM

The Full Story Behind Operation `Finale` | History of Israel Explained | Unpacked

```  
bland         adj. 乏味的；温和的；冷漠的
facilitate    v. 使更容易，使便利；促进，推动
logistics     n. 物流；后勤工作
exterminate   vt. 消灭；根除
wicked        adj. 邪恶的；恶劣的；不道德的；顽皮的
humane        adj. 人道的，仁慈的；（学科分支）人文的，高尚的
outrage       n. 愤慨，愤怒；骇人听闻的事，暴行  
finale        n. 结局；终曲；最后一场；最后乐章；尾声
snatch        v. 一把抓起；夺去；抓紧时间做；反败为胜；（非正式）偷；急切地接受（邀请或机会）
extradition    n. 引渡；亡命者送还本国
repent         vi. 后悔；忏悔
fascinate      v. 深深吸引，迷住；深深吸引，迷住；<旧>（尤指蛇）以眼神震慑（人，动物），使无法动弹
prime          adj. 主要的；最好的；基本的  
noted          v. 注意；特别提出；记录（note 的过去式及过去分词）  adj. （尤指因有特别之处而）著名的，知名的   
vengeance      n. 复仇；报复；报仇
accuse         v. 控告，指责  
bureau         n. 局，处，科；办事处，办公室；五斗橱，衣柜；书桌    
council        n. 委员会，理事会；政务委员会，地方议会；会议：；（教会的）集会；会议
flout          v. 藐视，无视（规则、法律等）；嘲笑，愚弄
mundane        adj. 世俗的，平凡的；世界的，宇宙的
expel          v. 把……开除（或除名）；驱逐；排出（空气、水、气体等）
abduct         vt. 绑架；诱拐；使外展  
conscience     n. 良知，良心；内疚，愧疚
stigma         n. 耻辱，污名；（植物花朵的）柱头；<医>（病的）外在特征（或特点）；（皮肤上的）斑点，小斑；
slaughter      n. 屠宰；大屠杀；（非正式）彻底击败
diligent       adj. 勤奋的，勤勉的；细致的，潜心的  
perpetrate     vt. 犯（罪）；做（恶）    
condemn        v. 谴责，严厉指责；宣判，判决；使陷入（不愉快的境地）；宣布……不安全；证明（或表明）有罪  
pervert        v. 使错乱，使反常；歪曲，曲解；误用，滥用；颠倒；腐蚀，侵害；使堕落；
consequent     adj. 随之发生的，由此引起的；（河流，山谷）顺向的  
consent        n. 许可，允许；同意，赞同
fault          n. 错误；责任，过错；缺点，故障；断层；发球失误
```

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - 

We're all familiar with the number of Jews killed in the `Holocaust`. Six million. But did you ever wonder how many of the Nazis were brought to justice? The number's actually `disturbingly` small. Some estimates ranged from 5 to 10 percent and some even say way less. But, thankfully, some of them were caught and brought to justice. Their capture raised many questions: What does evil look like when it's dressed in ordinary clothes? How does the world come to terms with those responsible for `rounding up`, deporting, and `exterminating` millions of innocent people? Let's take a look at the kidnapping, trial and execution of one of the flat out worst men in history, Adolf Eichmann. (upbeat music) 

Adolf Eichmann was known as the architect of the Holocaust and the Final Solution, the mass extermination of six million Jews during World War Two, one of the most horrifying experiences in world history. The guy had major problems. I mean, what kind of person actually says as Eichmann did, "I will leap into my grave laughing "because having five million human beings on my `conscience` "is a source of extraordinary satisfaction." Well, maybe it's what you'd expect from a Nazi who was buddies with Hitler. Eichmann's capture and death sentence is one of the most famous and satisfying stories of `vengeance` against the Nazis with the Jews bringing one of the most significant Holocaust `perpetrators` to justice, but let's back up a little. In 1945 after the end of World War Two, the world and especially the Jewish people, faced a lot of tricky questions: How do you respond to `genocide` on that major of a scale? How do you hold those responsible `accountable`? What are the ethics in bringing them down? And how do you go about exacting justice? Eichmann's trial raised all these questions and more. Before he was tried in Jerusalem in 1961, many knew about the extent of the Nazi's `nefariousness`, but few who experienced it firsthand were comfortable speaking about it publicly. All of that changed after the trial, the first trial in the world to be fully televised, when the world learned the full extent of what the Jews went through. Eichmann, easily the second worst Adolf to ever live, rose through the SS ranks to become `lieutenant` `colonel`, and one of Hitler's top `deputies`. He had several `bureaucratic` positions in his Nazi career, but where he really shined was in organizing the `logistics` of deporting mass numbers of Jews throughout Europe to the Nazi's death camps. He quickly made a name for himself as a master administrator through planning and implementing the Final Solution to the Jewish Question. After World War Two ended, Eichmann fled to Argentina, a noted safe haven for Nazis, where he lived in relative quiet, under the fake name, Ricardo Klement, until the late 1950s. His kids, however, kept their `infamous` last name, which is one of the bits of information used to track down the former SS `Colonel`. What followed was a top secret mission called Operation Finale, now a major motion picture. The capture went down like this. Eichmann was on his way home from his job at a Mercedes-Benz workshop, when a man approached him smiling and waving. The man, an undercover Mossad agent, asked Eichmann in Spanish if he had a moment to chat. Eichmann grew suspicious and tried to run away, but before he could, other agents `swarmed` him and shoved him into a car. They took him into a safe house, and after being asked his identify several times, he finally admitted he was Adolf Eichmann, and asked for a glass of wine. Nothing quite says `archvillain`, like asking for a glass of wine while admitting to the murder of six million people. They wanted him to stand trial in Jerusalem, but it took a week to get him to sign an agreement to fly to Israel, rather than stand trial in Argentina, which is kinda crazy that the Israelis wouldn't proceed without Eichmann's `consent`. So, they had the right man and his consent to travel, but Israeli leaders were in a tough position. Argentina had a long history of turning down `extradition` requests for Nazi war criminals hiding in its borders. So, not wanting to lose their great white whale, the Mossad decided to `smuggle` him out. The agents drugged the Nazi and dressed him in El Al uniform, Israel's national airline, and snuck him onto a plane pretending that Eichmann was just a flight attendant who needed to catch up on his Zs. Smuggling Eichmann out was a great call by the Mossad because sheltering thousands of Nazi `fugitives` wasn't the only questionable step Argentina took. After Eichmann's capture became public, anti-Semitic incidents in the South-American country, jumped off the charts and the country's leadership `expelled` Israel's ambassador as `payback`. What gives, Argentina? Why `expel` diplomats instead of mass murderers? It made sense for Israel to not ask permission. Eichmann's capture `gave rise to` many fiery debates, like, is it `flouting` international law for one country to smuggle an accused criminal out of another country as a way of getting around `thorny` extradition laws? Can a country decide that a criminal should stand trial on their soil when his crime and arrest occurred in a different country? The American Jewish Committee was `outraged` by Israel's decision to try Eichmann in Jerusalem, arguing that the war criminal had `perpetrated` horrors against Jews and non-Jews alike, and not even specifically against the State of Israel, which didn't exist at the time. They believed an international `tribunal` in Germany was more fitting. But David Ben-Gurion, Israel's first` prime minister`, strongly disagreed, calling the decision to try Eichmann in `Jerusalem`, "Our historical duty toward the six million "of our brethren who were murdered." Many nations were `appalled` by Israel's decision. The United Nations Security Council passed a resolution against Israel, surprise, stating that Israel violated Argentina's `sovereignty`. Israel's actions were `condemned` by the United States, Britain, France, China, and the Soviet Union. These countries were mainly afraid that if Israel faced no consequences after `snatching` a `fugitive` from a foreign land, other countries might do the same, which could eat away at international peace, something no one wanted in the years immediately after the Second World War. But for others, Jews, Israelis, the capture of Eichmann by the twelve-year-old country of Israel was worthy of celebration. As one of Eichmann's biographers put it, "The purpose of catching Eichmann "was clear from the beginning- "one, to remind the world what the Germans did to the Jews, "and two, to remind Israeli youth "why the State of Israel needed to exist." The capture, trial, and `execution` of Eichmann showed the world and the Jewish people, that Jewish blood is not cheap, and that while Jewish people had no autonomy for nearly two thousand years, they were now capable of taking matters into their own hands and were only dependent on themselves for protection. No longer would the Jews be led like sheep to the slaughter; far from it in fact. Now, they could seek out and track down their wrongdoers wherever they were across the globe, and make them face the consequences of their actions. Eichmann's trial began in April of 1961. More than a hundred Holocaust survivors gave testimonies, and hundreds of documents were presented as evidence. They painted Eichmann as the main architect of the Holocaust, a `diligent` worker who `facilitated` and managed the incredibly tricky logistics involved in the mass `deportation` of Jews to `ghettos`, concentration camps, and their eventual deaths. The photos of Eichmann in the courtroom showed a small, balding man with blocky glasses wearing large headphones over his ears to translate the Hebrew. He looked slight and almost `subservient`. Hannah Arendt, the Jewish-German writer and philosopher, who was covering the trial for the New Yorker, wrote that his answers to the prosecution's questions painted an `unrepentant` man, who was unwilling to accept responsibility for his role as a main destroyer of European Jewry. "Why me?" Eichmann asked. "Why not the local policemen, "thousands of them? "Everybody killed the Jews. "Why me?" Arendt coined the famous term, the `banality` of evil, to describe her impression of Eichmann. She described a `bland` `bureaucrat`, who claimed he was merely following orders from his higher ups and who, in her words, was "neither `perverted` nor `sadistic`, "but in fact thoughtless and terrifyingly normal." This was an incredibly controversial take at the time. She described something that disturbed many people. How could Eichmann, who was being called the face of evil in newspapers around the world, be as bad as all that when he looked like a middle-aged man who probably fed `pigeons` in the park, and who claimed he was just doing his job, like everyone else? Arendt wondered if Eichmann was evil in his core or just an ordinary guy who got swept up in a wave of fast-moving Fascism and discovered he was good at designing processes to destroy the Führer's enemies? In other words, Arendt wondered if one could do evil without being evil? Now, Arendt had her `detractors`, including the American writer, Norman Podhoretz, who argued that only a `vicious` `anti-Semite`, could join the Nazi party and especially the SS. Podhoretz `faulted` Arendt for what he viewed as her downplaying of Eichmann's bone-deep `wickedness`. He wrote, "To believe otherwise is to learn nothing "about the nature of `anti-Semitism`. "No banality of a man could have done "so hugely evil a job so well." He came up with his own phrase in response to Arendt's famous, banality of evil, calling the intellectual gymnastics she underwent to come to her conclusion, the perversity of brilliance. Basically, it was this idea that brilliant people can use their mental acuity to explain away nearly anything, including absolute evil. In December 1961, Eichmann was found guilty of crimes against humanity, crimes against the Jewish people, and war crimes. There was a debate among some of the Israeli leaders about Eichmann's fate. The majority of Knesset pushed execution, which is fascinating by the way, since capital punishment is practically unheard of in Israel, but a few held out, arguing that life in prison was more `humane`. Adolf Eichmann, one of the main architects of the Holocaust was hanged in front of a dozen people in a prison just outside of Jerusalem on June 1st, 1962. One of the positive results to come out of the Eichmann trial, aside from bringing a `despicable` war criminal to justice, was that it removed some of the `stigma` and shame many Holocaust survivors felt, inspiring thousands of survivors who had gone through the `atrocities`, to speak openly and freely, following in the footsteps of the dozens of witnesses who gave testimony in Jerusalem. The Eichmann trial raised a good number of questions, far more than we have answers to. Some of these include Arendt's question, about the true nature of evil, is it something that appears `villainous` and larger than life, like the photos and testimonies about Eichmann as an SS leader, or is it quieter and more `mundane`, like the meek Eichmann who appeared at his trial. Who was ultimately responsible for the murder of six million Jews? Should Israel have had the right to capture Eichmann or was his `abduction` abroad a step too far? And to what extent can Nazi hunters go to bring their targets to justice? But, at the end of the day, even if the Eichmann trial did raise a lot of unanswerable questions, there are some things about which we can be sure. It changed the way the world viewed the Holocaust. It brought the experiences of the survivors to center stage and exposed the many evils visited upon the Jews and the other victims of Hitler's grand plan. It established Israel, a country in its adolescence, as unwilling to lie down when it had the opportunity to hold murderers accountable, and it confirmed the Jewish people as the architects of their own fate, acting in their own best interests, regardless of how the rest of the world might view them. And it brought a small sliver of justice to the millions of victims and thousands of survivors of the Holocaust. Thanks for watching. (energetic music) 