https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xtoMiC-JqDI&ab_channel=LondonReal

```
anesthesia   n. 麻醉；麻木（等于anaesthesia）
dumb         adj. 哑的，不能说话的；一时说不出话的，不肯开口的；<非正式>愚蠢的；（计算机终端）简易的  
reclaim      vt. 开拓；回收再利用；改造某人，使某人悔改  
proponent    n. 支持者；建议者；提出认证遗嘱者
litter       n. （公共场所内乱扔的）垃圾，废弃物；一堆杂乱的东西；（同时出生的）一窝（小动物）；猫砂；（森林里的）落叶，落叶层；（家畜睡觉用的）褥草，垫草；轿子；担架
blunder      v. 跌跌撞撞地走，摸索；犯愚蠢的错误，出漏子；误入，不小心陷入（困境）
mortal       adj. 终有一死的，不能永生的；极其严重的，致命的；至死方休的，不共戴天的；极度的，极其强烈的；死的，临死的；（因罪孽深重而）灵魂无法得救的，不能蒙神恩得宽恕的；<非正式>想像得出的，可能；世间的，凡人的
devastate    v. 毁坏，破坏；使极度震惊，使伤心欲绝
sedate       adj. 安静的；沉着的
anthropology    n. 人类学
lousy           adj. 讨厌的；多虱的；污秽的；极坏的
impenetrable    adj. 不能通过的；顽固的；费解的；不接纳的
fascinate  
supersede       vt. 取代，代替；紧接着……而到来      
feast           n. 宴会，筵席；盛会，特别的享受；宗教节日
detriment       n. 损害，伤害；造成损害（或损伤）的事物    
dissipate       vt. 浪费；使…消散    
preeminent      adj. 卓越的；超群的  
oscillate       vt. 使振荡；使振动；使动摇  
prick           v. 戳；扎破；（使）感到刺痛；（眼泪）引起刺痛；（眼睛）发酸；（使）内心痛苦；驱使；（使）耳朵竖起  
paralyze        vt. 使麻痹；使瘫痪
circuit         n. 电路，回路；巡回活动，巡回地；环道，环线；赛车道；（英国）巡回审判区，巡回上诉法院；（一套）体操动作；统一经营的连锁剧院（或影院）
manifest        v. 显示，表明；（鬼魂或神灵）显灵，出现；（病症）显现；把……列入货单
divine          adj. 神的，天赐的；绝妙的，极令人愉快的
stigma          n. 耻辱，污名；（植物花朵的）柱头；<医>（病的）外在特征（或特点）；（皮肤上的）斑点，小斑；（基督教传统中的）圣痕 （stigmata）
eminent         adj. （在某领域或职业中）卓越的，出众的；突出的，明显的
blow  
overhaul        v. 彻底检修，全面改造；全面改革（制度或方法）；（尤指在体育竞赛中）赶上，超过
physiology      n. 生理学；生理机能
slothful        adj. 怠惰的，懒惰的；迟钝的  
passive  
bereave         v. 使丧失亲友；剥夺
perspiration    n. 汗水；流汗；努力
regime  
striking  
dormant         adj. 休眠的；静止的；睡眠状态的；隐匿的
instruct  
germinate        
consequent        
insomnia  
fault  
fervent         adj. 热心的；强烈的；炽热的；热烈的
```

MATTHEW WALKER - WHY WE SLEEP

WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en 

There is that simple truth the shorter your sleep the shorter your life. Sleep used to be one of the less great remaining scientific mysteries. We were still asking the question Why do we sleep. no one could give me an answer? Every physiological system in the body and every single operation of the mind is wonderfully enhanced by sleep when you get it and `Demonstrably` impaired when you don't get enough 

Insufficient sleep is linked to Alzheimer's disease, you know, it's diabetes, depression, suicidality Anxiety, everything that's killing us in the developed world. Everything about the science is telling us we need to increase it and stop the great sleep neglect 

If your surgeon has only slept six hours you have a 170 percent increased risk of a major surgical error. So there are lives being lost to insufficient sleep. Now we often hear that old Mantra, you know you can sleep when you're dead It's `mortally` unwise advice because if you adopt that `mindset`, not only will you be both dead sooner, But the quality of that now shorter life will be significantly worse. Sleep is the single most effective thing. You can do to reset your brain and body health. Sleep is a life support system and it is mother nature's best effort yet at `immortality`. 

They say that the human race is doomed that we have lost touch with our true nature, That the media has corrupted us and that the planet has the future. I Disagree. I believe that humanity is full of hope and that our `salvation` Lies within each one of us. My name is Brian rose in my job is to listen the oldest method of learning known to man. Each week I seek out individuals that are changing the world people who are living and thinking in a different way. their stories will challenge your beliefs make you question your choices and perhaps inspire you to change. I never planned on doing any of this, but now I can't stop. Join me on this mission, and make humanity something we can all be proud of. 

It's time for you to man up to once and for all Tell you mine who the fuck is boss. I need a fucking answer. What's it gonna be? I Don't know what it is about this fucking sport but it attracts people that really need to do deep work on themselves I Failed in the city All these bad memories. I never really felt like I gave a fuck about me or my life. 

I Almost killed myself like. Think about something that is gonna drive you when it really hurts some kind of demon you want to fight. This is not pussy man, this is Iron Man. Under pressure reveals true character. What are you gonna do? I'm gonna be in Chattanooga, May 20 at the woods. We've all heard the expression I'll sleep when I'm dead and let's be honest We've all been `privy` to a bit of sleep `machismo` where you're talking about how few hours you get every night the truth is your lack of sleep is literally killing you. and we think of this thing as a Nuisance when really sleep allows you to be creative to `retain` memories to do all Sorts of important functions to the human body. We really don't understand this enough and my guest this week Matthew Walker He's a professor of neuroscience at Cal Berkeley. He's also the sleep Scientist at Google and he's here to show you how you can sleep better and how it can make your life your business your relationships So much more enjoyable. 

This is real stuff and you need to embrace your sleep now. Better than later if you want to live long and have an amazing life, so I know you're gonna enjoy this conversation with Matthew. I also know you're gonna enjoy what's going on inside London real academy we've got our broadcast yourself course coming up business accelerator and speak to inspire, if you want to give your own TED talk, or just Communicate in a personal or business setting it's all kicking off along with our free courses go to London real TV And here's a little bit more about it. 

London real doesn't stop when the conversation ends. You see, that's when we get started. Because everything begins with a thought and then comes the action. The London real Academy is our global transformation platform. here. We bring together thousands of students from over 75 countries Whether you want to build a profitable business from your passion Or learn to speak to inspire or broadcast yourself with your very own podcast, Or accelerate your life to become a high-performance person. We have the online `accountability` course and personal mentoring program. That will make your dream a reality Join us and we'll take your life to the next level together. Our next accelerate of course is starting soon. 

This is London real I am Brian Rose my guest today is Matthew Walker the award-winning professor of neuroscience and psychology at the University of California Berkeley and the sleep Scientist at Google. your book why we sleep takes a groundbreaking Look at how sleep is one of the most important aspects of our life one. That is Increasingly neglected in modern society and how that can have deadly consequences. Matthew welcome to London real thank you so much for having me. It's a `privilege` and a delight a longtime fence. It's lovely to be on the show. That's awesome to hear. You know, this is something that gets everyone's ears `pricked` I think and and everyone really likes you talking about sleep and I want to get to your journey After a little bit, I think everyone likes leave it in if they like me But we'll see you know sometimes I've had over 500 people here and it's not all it's the message the timing and it's a lot of times the communicator that Really makes a difference. So no pressure. Get into that and but you know what really strikes me in this book in with you is that you know deadly Consequences. This can dis affect the length of your life. This can affect diseases, you know, and and I don't think anybody really on this planet has ever been taught that sleep Is that crucial and that important. and you make some really, you know bold statements here that hey everybody This is the time to really wake up and take this seriously You've been you took four years to write this book, right? 

I did yeah, and I wanted to take that time because I wanted the book to Not just be a quick hit about you know The top 10 tips for better sleep or which we've seen for a year We've seen lots of times or you know, just sleep for the brain. You could write a book on that for me this needs to be the Comprehensive. I hope sort of `manifesto` that would last a significant amount of time. I wanted to write a book That wasn't necessarily successful but was significant That was my hope that was not just timely but hopefully timeless to a degree. and to do that I think you really have to put the work in and so the book charts everything that you could imagine from Sort of the evolution of sleep, sleep anthropology, through to you know The deleterious impact of sleep on the body then speaking about sleep in the mind It speaks about sleep and dreams, and then it goes to sleep in society what's happening with insufficient sleep in medicine in education in business productivity and It finishes with a vision of 21st century sleep `prescription`, you know If this is the problem, this is where we've come how sleepers evolved. This is what's happening with sleep right now Where do we go from here? What do we do? Because I don't think anyone likes someone who just speaks problems and then doesn't at least offer a solution path. So the book took four years In part because it wasn't I'm not just an author. I'm a professor I'd have a sleep center and have to teach so in part it was time. But it was also I wanted to invest that time to create the richest `Tapestry` of a sleep book that I could possibly wish for. the book that I would want to read. 

Mmm. Yeah I always tell people here. Don't bring me problems bring me solutions, right? And so I like to hear that What is an Englishman from? Liverpool doing living in Berkeley talking about these issues and probably becoming one of the most `preeminent` speaker on on sleep How did that happen? 

I think were all accidental sleep researchers in the field You know, I don't think when you're sort of six or seven and in school they say you know, what? Would you like to be you know? I don't think anyone ever sort of raised the hand. So had a little to be asleep research you know, I want to be a doctor fireman astronaut and I Started sort of looking at medicine that was probably sort of the path that I was heading on But I realized that I was probably more interested in questions than I was answers and if you're a doctor you should very much be interested in answers and I realized I was probably a scientist rather than a doctor. So I Went into neuroscience and I started in my PhD Looking at brainwave patterns in people with `dementia` and trying to differentially work out very early on are you suffering from? Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease or `vascular` dementia, and I was failing miserably, and I was measuring brainwave activity when people were awake but then I started to read a go home said about weekends with stacks of journals Atlas like sort of little igloo of journals in My bedroom that I go into I started realizing that the different parts of the brain that these different dimensions would attack Some of them were attacking sleep centers and others weren't. And so I thought well, maybe I'm just measuring their brainwave activity At the wrong time I should be measuring them when they're asleep. Not when they're awake So I started measuring the sleep of my patients found remarkable results, and that's when I started to ask well if the sleep is disrupted, I wonder if that's Contributing to the dementia. Is it not just a symptom? Is it a cause and Back, then this was 20 years ago. We were still asking the question. Why do we sleep? No one could give me an answer? so So truly with a lack of `hubris` and not trying to be `arrogant`. I thought I would go into steady sleep for maybe two or three years and I would figure that out not realizing that some of the most brilliant servic minds in science had tried to crack the problem and failed for careers. 

and That was 20 years ago, and I'm still asking that question But now we've had to actually upend the `conundrum`, you know Sleep used to be one of the last great remaining scientific mysteries. We didn't know why. Based on the wealth of the data that now has sort of put into the book, We actually have to ask is that anything that sleep doesn't support for brain or body and the answer seems to be no. every physiological system in the body and every single operation of the mind is wonderfully enhanced by sleep when you get, it and Demonstrably impaired when you don't get enough. 

you used to think that there are kind of three pillars in the human body diet Exercises asleep, and now you've pretty much said it's all `superseded` by sleep. 

it is. Yeah I used to think that sleep was the third pillar of good health alongside diet and exercise, but I don't think that's true I don't think the data supports my claim so I had to reject it I think sleep is actually the foundation on which those two other things said. so for example If you're dieting and you're trying to watch what you eat. But you're not getting sufficient sleep, 70% of the weight that you will lose will come from lean muscle mass and you will keep all of the fat the body actually becomes stingy in giving up its fat when you are underslept. and That's just one of many examples, you know for exercise It's very clear to. that firstly if you're not getting sufficient sleep Your probability of exercising firstly the next day is markedly reduced. Secondly, when you do workout your time to physical exhaustion is decreased considerably, almost by 30%. Your speed of sort of completion of running for example your peak muscle strength, Even your ability to respire to expire carbon dioxide inhale oxygen that's decreased. Lactic acid accumulation builds up quicker your ability to perspire to cool the body Essential for high-performance sport that is `impaired` too and finally your injury risk. this is one of the most recent findings if you simply look at athletes across a season and Then you bucket them on the basis of how much sleep that they're getting You know 9 hours plus 8 hours 7 hours 6 hours. There is a linear relationship with with injury risk That the less and less sleep that you have the higher and higher your injury risk becomes. 

So again if It's just to try and sort of emphasize why I change my mind It really is the bedrock from which those two other things will then subsequently emerge and if that foundation is `shaky`, It's very difficult to think that those two other things are effective. 

You know, I just finished my Ironman race. Yeah Yeah, I kind. Thank you You know, I was 47 years old and I kind of started from scratch and for 80 days I was basically training every single day sometimes twice a day and my trainer she said You know sleep is one of the most critical components now, she couldn't necessarily tell me why or how to get it but she said you've got to log this every single night and I'm just listening to the long list of things that I could have been suffering from injury promotion and promote a injury proponent and Rescue no `Perspiration` all of these things are critical components in the Ironman. And so yeah I did get a lot of good sleep and I can only imagine when I'm on the 22nd kilometer and I got to do 25 that day like that's when you need yeah Everything cognitive ability everything.

and that's what we see. I mean it's a it's a great insight and it's very intuitive Sometimes to unmask the lack of sleep that you're having you have to put the system under load. So let's say that you know you're sleeping just five hours a night and I measure your sort of `physiology` and you're just at rest in a chair and Sometimes I mean there's a lots of things that we can pick up that are already impaired your immune system, For example. But there are other things let's say looking at your `cardiac` output where it's a little bit more difficult to tell at rest But then as soon as we apply you to a challenge cognitively for the brain or `cardiovascular` for the heart, Instantly you see that's where the the lack of sleep reveals itself to you. 

So It's it's that sort of as an insurance policy in some ways, but it's when you start to extend yourself It's that mile 20 to as you're describing that's where you see, you know, the payoff of having a good night of sleep 

Right, you know I've spoken to over 500 people here in the studio and not a single One of them has ever told me that they get by on a low amount of sleep, you know they've all Always told me behind the scenes or on camera that this sleep is one of the most important things. they do they get that Even the ones you would expect to be the `bravado` and the listen to that They actually don't because I think they've learned over time and you know I've been trying to get my sleep routine on point And I was wondering if you could tell me what you think of my my sleep routine. Yeah Yeah, and so I'm you know in preparing for this show I've been taking hot showers there Because of what you talked about about how that can change your physiology and maybe we can speak about this For a long while now, I've kept my room fairly dark. I've turned off the electronic devices I've got the earplugs in and the mask on I did a little bit of a sleep divorce, You know, a few years ago with my wife and you know You could talk about that where? We currently don't sleep in the other room and I'll talk to you about her sleep with two young boys shortly Maybe we can comment on that. I do stay on my screens later than I should so I'm probably you know still on a Low lit screen maybe even up till 11:00 11:30 at night. I think I've got something on my phone that tells me I need to be going to bed at like 10:40 to get my 8 hours. It's like a new app. You know I get in there. I've been lately trying to take a hot shower before I go in I've been using some `magnesium` cream and and That's kind of what I do and I try to do the same time every night And I have good and bad results. You know, I've always struggled with sleep, you know when I was drinking myself to death in the banking world. That didn't help. 

Yeah So I mean alcohol is probably one of the most both Misunderstood and most sort of abused sleep aids and it obviously is not an aid at all. It's actually remarkably `detrimental` to sleep But yeah you want because it feels like a short-term fix as it can kind of get you into the sleep state But it's not a good sleep. That's what people think. You know, you mistake `sedation` for sleep alcohol is a class of drugs that we call the `sedatives` and Station isn't sleep. It's very different. Now when you drink heavily and you sort of you know, you fall asleep I'm not going to argue that you're awake. You're clearly not awake. But to say that you've gone into naturalistic sleep is an equal `falsehood`. You'd simply have sedated your cortex. The other two problems with alcohol, it firstly will fragment your sleep So you will wake up many more times throughout the night So you sort of if I were to show you your sleep graph with alcohol. It's just sort of `peppered` `littered` with these awakenings. and A lot of those awakenings you're not aware of they're maybe just sort of 2 or 3 Seconds and then your brain tries to go back in and `reclaim` its cycle and then you back up again So you don't commit them to? So you wake up the next day and you feel `lousy` you feel unrefreshed and restore by that seat But you don't remember anything bad about your sleep. You don't remember waking up so you don't think it was the alcohol You just think I don't know why I don't feel good. But I'm having a bad day That's the second problem with alcohol. The third one is that alcohol will actually block your dream Sleep what we call rapid eye movement sleep which is essential for lots of different operations, including emotional and mental health So alcohol should be avoided you know This the notion of a nightcap even I would love to embrace that and you know deeply unpopular for saying it but if you know I'm just here to describe the science and the data that we know of and then people can make an `informed` choice But alcohol is not the sleep aid that people think unfortunately, right so avoid the night caps yeah, 

but you're doing actually but just to go back to your you know, your own sleep prescription as it were I Think you're doing fantastic things, you know, you're the only thing is perhaps light We are a dark deprived Society in this modern era and we need darkness to allow the release of a hormone called `melatonin` to help time our healthy sleep. But in modernity right now, you know We come out of the day Into our homes or we stay in offices and our brain is still being told it's daytime It's light because of artificial light. and it's Edison that you know in some ways that we have to you know Thank because it was his light company that popularized. the you know. He was the first person that took control of the night And for the first time we `dictated` when it was light and dark not the `rotational` mass of the planet, You know, around the Sun that was transformational In some good ways. but also for our sleep it was a devastating blow so darkness is perhaps the only part of the sleep equation that maybe we could improve on but Hot showers are hot baths great because you come out your core body temperature drops 

Yeah, talk to me about this body temperature and how that helps you sleep You know, we've always heard the grandma thing saying take a hot bath before you go to sleep But yeah, never really knew the science but a new part I think of that gram I mean I Often what I say is that we asleep scientists are really putting the data behind everything that your grandmother and Shakespeare ever told you about Sleep. to be to be honest, you know, I'm not doing this radical what it takes for say I always forget Oh, well, he's he's has this lovely line that sleepest the chief nourisher of life's great `feast`. I think it's Macbeth. Act two scene two Beautiful, you know words just it's just his `prose` are littered with sleep advice So I think you're doing you know You're doing very well there The temperature to come back to it though your brain and body need to drop the core temperature by about one degree Celsius or about two to two three degrees Fahrenheit to Initiate sleep. and it's the reason that you will always find it easier to fall asleep in a room That's too cold than too hot Because at least the cold room is taking you in the right `thermal` direction that your body wants to naturally go to get good sleep Now you could then kind of get recursive and say okay, that's good So your body needs to drop but why why does it need to drop its temperature or why are we that way? we're that way because we are `diurnal` species and we were designed to be sleeping at night and our body's `latched` on to the natural drop in temperature as a cue and a trigger to fall asleep. and in modernity, we have dislocated ourselves with constant `ambient` temperature. or Were still you know, we don't ventilate. So we evolved to be told to go to sleep. Using this thermal cue together with light is the other thing. for a long time We thought it was just light that regulated our sleep. It's not it's light and it's temperature those two things And if anything, it may be temperature that it's even more powerful than white but both are powerful. So you get into a hot bath and you think well, it's because it makes me nice and relaxed or I get warm and toasty. Relaxed yes, but toasty it's the opposite because I don't think that would raise my temperature and I wouldn't go to sleep. Right exactly So as long as you don't stay in the bath for too long What or the shower and shower is a good one? What happens is that all of the blood will rush to the surface of your skin away from the core of your body? Which takes the heat out from the core and you get out of the bath and you get this massive `dissipation` of heat. It's sort of all of the blood is just brought to these massive radiators that are the vascular surfaces at your hands your face and your feet they radiate most of the heat out. and Therefore you the core of your body the temperature `plummets`, and that's why you fall asleep faster So you're doing great with temperature? `Regularity` is key as well. I think if there's a single piece of advice go to bed at the same time. Wake up at the same time. 

which is not what anyone teaches you 

it's not Well, it's you know, people get no sleep education whatsoever You know and I mention this in the book, I did a poll with some colleagues who? Lived around the world and grew up in different parts of the world and I said to them You know when you were at school, did you get those classic sort of? lectures or classes about risky behaviors about drugs and alcohol and sort of You know safe sex and diet nutrition, you know physical activity or PE was always part of you know the regime did you have a lecture regarding the importance of sleep and Zero. almost everyone said yes to all of those other things and no one had a sleep education So you need to come back to your question, you know when we're never told about temperature But in part, we're never just told about sleep per se. 

Why is that? Now, what is it? How can we miss that big thing like again? I remember being pulled into the auditorium and go into the sex ed things with the girls and the boys around me going Oh my gosh, and I remember somebody having the talk about drugs and I remember all this stuff, you know But why not talk about this. is it it's not taboo. Is it just something we don't think about because we don't see it or you know why you must have thought about this 

yeah, I have a thought a lot about it actually and I think from what I can tell it's probably a collection of features that have produced this `deficit` in a sleep voice in our Education, I think the first is probably the `fault` of people like me, you know a scientists have not done I don't think as good a job as we could have in Communicating the importance of sleep to the public and it was part of the motivation to write the book It was one of two critical motivations. I Think that's the first part the second part is, you know, 20 or 30 years ago, We just didn't know enough about sleep Or even if we did, I think you know how that translates `trickle down`, You know, into communities and schools just was going to take some time, but I'm desperate to try and change that you know I'd love to work with the World Health Organization the CDC love to work with any first world nation government if they want to think about an educational policy it is `bereave` in all first world nations right now, and that needs to change. so I think the trickle down is yet to occur and and happen I think the final thing comes back to something you hinted at which is sleep has an image problem. That we `stigmatize` getting sufficient sleep with this label of laziness You know that we are `slothful` if we're getting sufficiency, but I choose my word very carefully sufficient. I'm not talking about `excess` and So I don't think that is helped I think communities even in schools were resistant And to me what I find surprising about that `mentality` is that we don't always hold that notion. What I mean, is that you know No one would look at an infant sleeping during the day and say well now what a lazy, baby. You know and we we don't say that because we know that sleep at that time of life is non-negotiable It's absolutely `essential` but then somewhere between infancy and now if you look even `Toddler age` or childhood? Not only do we abandon the notion that sleep is essential But we actually `chastise` people for getting enough and people become proud to tell you how little sleep that they get. So I think that part of you know to come back to your original Question as to why that voice isn't there why we don't know these things. I think part of it is because we don't have an educational system that is either aware of sleep or teaching sleep or Perhaps I fear Embracing and ready to you know celebrate sleep rather than `stigmatize` it. Okay Let me contrast the room next to me at my house So my wife is there my boy is - my other boy is 10 months They are up and down all re all times of the night. She's been dealing with these crazy babies for two years She is massively C sleep-deprived yeah, she tries to get whenever she can sometimes during the day but it is the constant needs of these children and I'm just wondering what what does a new parent like that do or someone who's in that? Situation where they did a choice isn't really seen and now they have to kind of triage the situation. 

Yeah, Parenting is a very difficult equation in terms of a sleep solution. Certainly there are things that can help children's sleep better. Having a bedroom if there's one piece of recommendation advice, I would give to parents for their children. It would be having a bedroom sort of a sari asleep routine So, you know bathe your child sort of every night, read a book every night, You know, sort of have a cuddle every night have a conversation Whatever it is that you feel works establish that as a routine and then don't let it go Keep that routine regular that's been demonstrated to be hugely helpful. Then for parents it's tricky work-life balance. Harmony gets in the way. If you can try to structure it where if there are two parents and not everyone has that of course But if there are trying to think about the split shift workload either Dependent on your work schedules or dependent on your natural what we call your chronotype. So there are morning people and there are evening people And this is no it's not a choice people think you know, I I want to be a morning person. It's not your choice It's your genetics We know the genes that `dictate` what's called your chronotype whether you're a morning sort of You know lark or you're an evening owl you're a night owl So some parents, you know, if the night owls maybe they in during infancy they can take sort of you know The first shift because they liked and actually stay awake late into the night anyway And then the person who is the morning type can come in and pick up the morning shift. if you are of that separate Some people are both types same and then that doesn't work. It's a very difficult equation to solve. and You could also just think back from an evolutionary perspective as to how have we been dealing with this? And what's interesting is that if you look at hunter-gatherer tribes whose way of life hasn't changed for thousands of years. They don't sleep in the way that we do. They don't sleep as a sort of a separate individual entity. They don't tend to Co sleep they actually group sleep they sleep as a collective, you know family members Aunts and uncles. They all sleep, you know legs `intertwined` and so, you know, sometimes child care would actually be shared throughout the night amongst a smaller family community. and It's probably the reason that by the way We have these things called Crona types morning, types and evening types and I put a theory out there in the buckets to why you know Why aren't we all of the same? Why are we all sort of, you know separated in this genetic edict of being wanting to stay awake late or wanting to be up early. and I think one answer is because as we were sleeping as a collective We would all be vulnerable for that eight hours. And that's a desperate vulnerability. But what if you were to? Program some variants genetically where some people would probably be staying awake until 2:00 a.m. 3:00 a.m. Because that's just natural tendency. Then other people would be waking up at say 5:00 a.m So now all of a sudden what you may have is everyone gets eight hours of sleep But you as a species as a collective. You're only vulnerable for maybe just two or three hours So you've halved or even quartered the amount of vulnerability time? What a brilliant solution by mother nature. Everyone still gets eight hours, but you're not vulnerable for eight hours You're only vulnerable for two because of the collective sleeping at different shifts. Love elegant design, but coming back to the family equation I think it's a very hard nut to crack. 

I mean maybe that comes down to that fact that the family unit has been sliced and diced by our Modernity and along with the temperature being off the light being on grandma's not there the uncle's not there You know We're not getting the cycle of night and day and 

we're so dislocated were so severed from the the natural signals that we evolved with and evolved to receive instruction from. No wonder that sleep problems are on the rise You know and ballooning exponentially rates of `insomnia` now just skyrocketing And sleep apnea sleep disordered breathing where you sort of snoring, you know as rates of obesity have increased. Snoring is directly related to body mass. So And you can have sleep `apnea`. If you're lean. It doesn't mean that you're an exception, but it certainly is a risk factor So I think that's part of the reason why we're seeing sleep being such a problem I think it's probably part of the reason why the book became so popular. and it's I suspect it's it's in sort of in spite of my writing or rather than because of my writing. but There is such a desperate need for this thing called sleep There is such an `appetite` and a hunger, because so few of us are getting it and getting the amount that we need. 

Let's talk Well, what is actually going on while I'm sleeping and you know again back to this kind of Darwinian concept I mean being `knocked out` for a thirty-year day when you're on the Savannah. I mean, it must be important because this ain't good if you've watched some of the you know, Okavanga Delta things and you don't need much time to be out to be get taken out by the Lion of the wildebeest or whatever So yeah, there must be some really important things happening here. And I know that I think you even look at sleep to teach us about ourselves, which is fascinating, but you know What's so important to shut us down for those eight hours? More if you're a kid and I watch my boy sleep and I'm just wondering what's going on there yeah, because like I said It must be super important for our own survival. If you're willing to sacrifice a third of your aware time to keep it going 

Yeah, I mean it's it's a great point, you know, if you take a step back and you think about this thing called sleep. So when we're asleep were not finding a mate. We're not reproducing. We're not socially interacting. We're not gathering food, and worst of all were vulnerable to predation. now on any one of those grounds sleep should it be strongly selected against in the course of evolution. add them up as a collective. What an earth, you know, if sleep doesn't serve an absolutely vital function it is the biggest mistake the evolutionary process has ever made. and now we're realizing that mother nature did not make a spectacular `blunder`. that Sleep just services every single system within the body and the changes in the mind and the changes in the brain that happened that we've been revealing a `stunning` and Now you can see what a remarkable investment sleep is why sleep needed to evolve actually though I put another theory out there in the book. Maybe sleep did not evolve why do we assume that we started off awake and then evolved to sleep and I afford an Idea, which I think is very probably difficult to prove but that sleep was the default state from which wakefulness emerged Rather than the other way around That we actually sort of woke up to sort of wake up and become awake. 

It's an interesting way to look at it, isn't it? because that means that You're coming out of this sleep state and maybe go take care of some things where and then you got to get back to where? 

You crate right And that's the get that's why I like That's why I wants to present that theory in the book and why I like it because I think it turns the tables on How we think about? Sleep as a necessity. We think about wakefulness as being the thing that's necessary that we accomplish so much and sleep is the price that we pay for wakefulness and Yes, that's true in part. because sleep is reparatory. It repairs a huge amount of The things that happen with wakefulness and I've sometimes said that if you look at the data wakefulness is low-level brain damage and it's very clear that that's the case and sleep provides a sort of a repairing and a cleansing. 

of that low-level brain damage But that's hard for people to hear 

right these ears Until you realize if you come back to the stance that you just sort of described elegantly from the theory that we started off From sleep, and then we `opportunistically` began to have these periods of wakefulness But we always had to go back to the default of sleep because it's so necessary. We sleep is a Life-support system and it is mother nature's best effort yet at immortality. I've seen nothing else that comes close to it. 

well There's a powerful statements and I like where you're going with this. What is happening in this sleep because there's a lot of things going on with memory and with repair and with dreams and you know, What are some of the things that people wouldn't think is happening when they're sleeping? I think a lot of probably people probably think it's resting in the body. Yeah. It's probably one of the last things that's happening Um, what is going on? 

There is certainly some a lot of `ripper` that happens. I mean your immune system gets an `overhaul` it kicks into high gear it Reapers cellular damage. But to think that sleep is a passive state where our bodies are simply Quiescent and there's nothing really going on upstairs in the mind is an absolute falsehood. And we made that mistake for a long time thinking that sleep was just this sort of passive negotiable state. upstairs in the brain for example, During some stages of sleep. particularly. rapid eye movement sleep which is the stage from, which most of our dreaming occurs. Some parts of your brain are 30% more active than when you're awake. So your brain `metabolically` is on fire, you know If I were to place you inside the NMR eye scanner at my sleep center. You know and show you show you the pattern of brain activity During REM sleep. It's an explosion of activity in fact If I were to measure your brainwave activity and just measure your activity from your brainwave during REM sleep I could not tell the difference Between you in REM sleep versus you awake, because those two patterns of brainwave Sort of oscillations are almost identical. I have to measure other things to be able to determine whether you're in sleep or in wakefulness. To go a little bit further to sort of scratch deeper for REM sleep. One of the other remarkable things, is that your brain `paralyzes` your body during REM sleep and most people don't know this but you are in a muscular `Incarceration`. you are physically incarcerated during REM sleep. Why is this? Well, it's a beautiful mechanism your brain paralyzes your body. So your mind can dream safely So you stop acting out your dreams or you don't act out your dreams. Because you can imagine that if it's dark you're not conscious of your surroundings You're not processing the outside world and you're dreaming about being you know The ultimate sort of cage fighter or you dream that you can fly You're going to be popped out of the gene pool very quickly, if you start acting out your dreams, so there's a mechanism in place Occasionally in particularly in males over the age of sort of 40 or 50 that mechanism can start to degrade. You have what's called rapid eye movement behavioral disorder or REM sleep behavioral disorder and you act out your dreams violently sometimes So that's a good example of how REM sleep is `Fervently` active. I mean to go to the lengths of you know paralyzing all of your spinal cord neurons so that your brain can get this thing called dreaming and act out this `bizarre` Experience at night is stunning. But that's not to also say that the other stage of sleep which is called non rapid eye movement Sleep isn't essential and active it very much is. Non REM sleep is subdivided into four separate stages what we call unimaginative lis stages one through four increasing in their depth of sleep. So stages three and four of nan Rama that really sort of deep Restorative sleep that if you are woken up out of you would sort of feel `groggy` You could even answer a telephone call that was brief, but it back and someone would say Thanks so much for helping me out last night. You'll say You called me I don't remember. so deep sleep is also what we call slow-wave sleep and the reason it's named slow-wave sleep is because when I look at your brainwaves If I were to miss your sleep tonight, when you go into deep sleep you all of a sudden just get these huge Powerful deep brain waves, but they're very slow. They're maybe going up and down. Maybe just sort of two or three times a second now What does that mean as a reference point when you're awake? Your brainwaves are going up and down maybe 40 50 sixty times a second. incredibly fast. When you go into deep sleep, they just go into this very slow `rhythmic` `chant` it's almost this mantra of brainwave activity. and Again, we were fooled as scientists thirty years ago, because we looked at that and it seemed very similar to other states that we see in `coma` And states of anesthesia, so we just thought well the brain is just `dormant` and it's not doing anything clearly completely incorrect It is during deep sleep when we do a lot of information processing and it's particularly drawing Deep sleep when we take memories that we've recently learned and we essentially `cement` them into the architecture of the brain. in fact It's during deep sleep that there is this elegant file transfer mechanism that happens Where your brain shifts memories from a short-term vulnerable reservoir to a more permanent long-term Storage site within the brain. and that means that you are essentially protecting those memories It's like taking files from a USB stick and putting them safely onto a hard drive that Happens during deep sleep 

and you tested this at Harvard didn't you know, you would teach people Some certain tasks and then based on the night's sleep. They got that night They would either learn them quicker the next day or not be able to progress right? I mean you really test it I remember reading some of your research back in the day I think 

yeah So we've done a lot of these studies with sleep and memory and so so you need sleep after learning to sort of do that memory transfer so that you remember so that sleep deep sleep essentially future proofs that information within your brain. So that you wake up and you've retained rather than you forget And in fact, you know You can get so accurate with sort of this understanding sleep that by the time you wake up in the morning Even before I test you I can predict with high accuracy how much you will ever remembered? That's how predictive sleep is So you need sleep after learning, but you also need sleep. However before learning but now to actually prepare your brain. a little bit like a dry sponge ready to initially soak up new information. and Without sleep, the memory circuits of the brain essentially become war - logged as it were. and you can't absorb information So you need to sleep on both sides of the learning equation sleep to prepare the soil of the brain for fertile Sort of seeding of the information and then you need sleep afterwards to `germinate` it and secure those roots. So that you don't forget you will always remember.

Okay, and that's probably having in stage three and four of the and the non REM sleep it is. Yeah Okay, so then you could sort of ask well is REM sleep this dreaming state? Is that important for memory and learning and it is as well, but it does something different We've realized that sleep is much more intelligent than we ever imagined That it's during dream sleep when your brain actually performs. It's almost like a form of informational `alchemy` where dream sleep takes all of those memories that have recently been `fixated` by the deep sleep and deep sleep by the way comes Principally in the first half of the night REM sleep comes in the second half of the night and we never really understood why there is this imbalance and One theory I put forward in the book is it's about information processing but you need to take what you've learned and firstly just fixate it grab it cement it and then comes REM sleep and REM sleep takes those fresh memories and then it starts to collide them with all of the back catalogue of information that you've got in the brain, so it's a little bit like group therapy for memories and Because your memories would be useless if they were just like isolate islands within the brain That's why computers for the most part sort of artificial intelligence Computers are kind of `dumb` in that sense. They're not particularly intelligent They can probably store information more `vertically` than you can but it's not smart and the reason that you are smart with your information is because you interconnect that information and it's REM sleep that actually seems to `Revise` our mind wide web of associations and this means that you wake up the next day and you can `divine` creative solutions to previously `impenetrable` problems 